
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired June 11, 2010 - 22:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Good evening again from Louisiana.  
     We have been telling you for weeks the difficulties that scientists have had in measuring how much oil is flowing into the Gulf.  In the beginning, you know BP said it was 1,000 barrels.  Then the government said 5,000, then 12,000 to 19,000, then 12,000 to 25,000, and now 20,000 to 40,000.  But the truth is, it could be much higher.  
     Today, for the first time, the government's man in charge, Admiral Thad Allen, said they are going to lower sensors down underwater to the well to directly measure the leak.  Now, this is what researchers, private, independent researchers, have been demanding and BP has been blocking for weeks, measuring the leak by, well, you know, actually measuring the leak.  
     All along, BP has said it doesn't need to be measured because they were planning for a worst-case scenario.  Well, today, further evidence that they didn't plan well enough.  They are siphoning off some 15,000 barrels of oil, they say, from the well every day, which is almost as much as the tanker on scene can handle.  
     Now, had they had a better estimate of the leak to begin with, of course, perhaps they would have had more resources on the scene right now.  
     Let's bring in Plaquemines Parish President Billy Nungesser.  
     Billy, thanks very much for being with us.  I know it's been a couple busy days for you.  
     Wolf Blitzer asked Admiral Allen today specifically about your concerns that you don't know who is in charge.  That's what you said in testimony in Washington tomorrow.  He says he's assigned a Coast Guard officer to each of the parish presidents, that if you have any concerns, he would be willing to meet with you.  What do you make of that?  Do you really not know who is in charge?  
     BILLY NUNGESSER, PRESIDENT, PLAQUEMINES PARISH, LOUISIANA:  Well, we have got a great guy in Sam (ph) that is in our headquarters, but everything has got to go up the chain of command, and then we have another guy in Venice that is very passionate, but I don't think either one of them can make a decision.
     And that's the problem.  Tomorrow morning, I'm going to go to Houma with another plan, just like Governor Jindal got approval finally for the suction machinery.  Well, we have some got other plans we will present tomorrow in Houma.
     But, you know, we fight just as hard to get things that will help us get the oil out.  I don't want to fight with anybody.  I want to be on the same team, but it hasn't worked that way, except when the president came down.  Each time the president came, things happened. Other than that, yes, they will check into them, they will get back with us, but nothing happens.  
     And we went out for three hours and saw no skimmers, a lot of oil, no skimmers.  Totally unacceptable.  
     COOPER:  Now, what is the situation with those vacuum devices? Because I went out with the governor I think when you were in Washington.  He basically had like five of these things working.  You basically took an 18-wheeler vacuum truck, put it on a barge, tied it down, and just started vacuuming up to see if it would work, and it seemed to work.  
     Is BP going to pay for that?  They wanted to do it on -- you guys wanted to do it on a big scale, get like 100 of them.  Is it going to -- is that going to happen?  
     NUNGESSER:  Right.  I think they approved fire or six of them, or as many as 13, I heard today.  We will find out tomorrow exactly.
     But you're right.  There ought to be -- everything we can deploy, we ought to deploy.  The local paper had them cleaning up on an island.  It looks like Scott Towels they laid down, and a bunch of workers looking at the towels in the pools of oil, just like wiping the blades of grass.  Where is the management on those teams?  Why isn't that oil being raked up in a pile, and let's get after it and get on?  
     I mean, that is just a Band-Aid on -- when we need major surgery. 
     COOPER:  The admiral also said, you know, that he's hoping to get these sensors down to the leaking pipe to actually get some pressure readings over the next couple of days to get a more accurate flow.  
     I mean, it's kind of stunning that, on day 52, this is just happening.  You -- this is the kind of thing you would think would have happened long ago.  
     NUNGESSER:  Absolutely.  
     You know, Anderson, it's just like they said, you know, 20 and 30 acres of Plaquemines Parish has been infested with the oil.  We GPSed it, went out with a helicopter and a boat.  It's a little over 300 acres.  So, they're off a few acres.
     And we -- that's their estimate compared to the actual facts that we went out and measured.  So, when you're off that much, that's not a mistake.  That's misleading,.  And we -- we find out all across the board here.  I'm really growing frustrated.       We're going to give the new BP guy until Monday.  We took him out.  He touched the oil.  We will give him a week.  We have got to see more action out on the water quickly.  We're getting into hurricane season.  We need this oil cleaned up, be out there waiting for the next oil to come in, not just always chasing the oil, and that's what we're doing now.  
     COOPER:  Yes.  I mean, day 52, it's easy for people, I think, who aren't here to start to think of this as, well, just same old, same old, and just routine.  But no one should ever think about this as routine.  Each day has sort of fresh disasters.  Each day, the urgency should be building, not lessening, for folks who aren't here.  
     Billy, I appreciate your time tonight.  We will talk to you more all next week, of course, when we're here live from the Gulf.  
     Now our exclusive interviews with the survivors of the Deepwater Horizons, where a series of deadly explosions led to this, the greatest environmental disaster in American history, in extraordinary detail tonight, gut-wrenching accounts.  You're going to hear from a group of men aboard that doomed rig, five of them, from the first signs of trouble to the desperate efforts to save others and themselves.  We're going to bring you that.  
     These survivors will also tell you about the safety questions they had and why they say they believe BP was cutting corners and taking risks.  
     Tonight's report is a partnership with 360 and CNN's Special Investigations Unit.  
     We begin with that moment that changed everything.
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     COOPER (voice-over):  April 20, the Gulf of Mexico, 51 miles off the coast of Louisiana, a crew of 126.  Some of the best oil industry engineers in the world were five weeks behind schedule drilling a stubborn well a mile deep.  
     A few minutes before 10:00 p.m., they heard a noise they had never heard before.  
     DOUG BROWN, BP EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  We began hearing the loud hissing and venting sound.  
     MATTHEW JACOBS, DEEPWATER HORIZON EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  And it just kept getting louder and louder.  I said, "Something's not right." 
     DANIEL BARRON III, DEEPWATER HORIZON EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  He just looked at me and he goes, "Man, I smell gas."  
     I said, "What do we do?" 
     He goes, "Run."       COOPER:  Eleven men would die that night.  The question I, what happened and why?  In the weeks before that terrible moment, crew members we spoke to say everyone felt pressure to get the well drilled and the oil flowing.  Some worried about cutting concerns.  
     COOPER (on camera):  Do you believe that safety is their number- one concern?  
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  All BP is worried about is the money.  
     COOPER (voice-over):  The day of the explosion, at least two survivors say they witnessed an argument between the driller, Transocean, and a BP manager who wanted to press ahead.  
     (on camera):  You're saying the guy from BP won the argument, basically?  He basically, said, well, this is how we're going to do it?
     BROWN:  Yes.  That's what I remember, yes.  He basically said, well, this is how it's going to be.
     BARRON:  There was always, like, an ominous feeling when we were on that well, you know.  There was like that chatter that, you know, we're messing with Mother Nature right now.  
     COOPER (voice-over):  About 11 hours later, 9:56 p.m., the loud hissing erupted into a series of explosions that would engulf the massive rig.  
     BROWN:  And it was actually so bright you couldn't even look at it any more. 
     It actually started sounding like a living thing, because it was hissing so loudly.  It was almost sounding like the beginnings of a roar of a creature. 
     AMANDA COOPER-BARRON, WIFE OF BP OIL RIG SURVIVOR:  He just goes, What rig does Dan work on again?  And I said, Deepwater Horizon.  Why? 
     And he goes, his rig has exploded.  
     CHRIS CHOY, BP EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  Everybody's screaming, the derrick's going to fall.  The derrick's going to fall on us.
     BARRON:  One of the guys that was on the lifeboat, he actually -- he panicked so much that he got up out of the lifeboat and then jumped overboard.  
     JACOBS:  It looked like you was looking at the face of death. 
     (END VIDEOTAPE) 
     COOPER:  Coming up next on 360, you will hear more from the survivors in their own words: how the fire started and how the fear quickly spread.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     JACOBS:  In the hallway, I mean, there's people screaming and hollering.  I mean, it's -- it's like the movie "Titanic" right before the ship sinks.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     COOPER:  Welcome back to "Deepwater Disaster: Survivor Stories," our exclusive report on the tragedy aboard the oil rig, a tragedy that turned into a catastrophe here in the Gulf.  
     In this hour, we're letting the men who survived the inferno tell you their stories about what happened that night off the coast of Louisiana.  Their accounts are harrowing and heartbreaking.  How did it begin?  That's what we wanted to know.
     Let's take you back to April 20, a routine night for the crew, until they heard something they will never forget.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)  
     BROWN:  We began hearing the loud hissing and venting sound.  
     COOPER:  And that was -- that was methane escaping?  
     BROWN:  Yes.  
     COOPER:  Had you ever heard anything like it before?  
     BROWN:  Not like this, no.  It was extremely loud.  
     And did you -- did all you guys hear it?  
     JACOBS:  It kept going and going and going.  And it just kept getting louder and louder.  And I said, something is not right.  
     CHOY:  I was asleep.  It woke me up, the sound from it.  I didn't know what it was.  I just heard that -- that loud hissing sound.  
     COOPER:  And what did you see?  
     BARRON:  The other guy had a radio, and we ran back to the phone, and he picked up the phone.  And he just looked at me and he goes, man, I smell gas.
     And I said, what do we do?  He goes, run, you know? 
     COOPER:  He said, run? 
     BARRON:  Yes, he said run.  And, luckily, we were right by the door.  And when we came down to the door, less than maybe 30 seconds later, the whole derrick was on fire. 
     COOPER:  And, I mean, what kind of flames, how big a fire?       BARRON:  Oh, they were huge, I mean, just massive, I mean, something that you would never expect to see.  I mean, you were in shock.  
     COOPER:  But you actually saw the flames?  
     BARRON:  Oh, yes, definitely.  Yes.  It was pretty crazy.  And, I mean, the mud and seawater and gas was just coming down on us, like it was raining.  
     COOPER:  It actually felt like rain?  There was actually mud raining down on you?  
     BARRON:  Oh, yes.  Yes.  I mean, it was...
     COOPER:  Where was the mud coming from?  
     BARRON:  From the rotary table.  It was coming back up through the well.  
     COOPER:  So, mud was literally exploding up through the water?  
     BARRON:  Yes.  
     COOPER:  I mean, through the well?  
     BARRON:  Through the well, yes, up through -- to the crown of the derrick.  
     JACOBS:  And out in the hallway, I mean, there's people screaming, hollering.  I mean, it's -- it's like the movie "Titanic" right before the ship sinks.  Everybody's just hysterical. 
     And when I get there, I mean, I could feel the heat from the flames as soon as I come out onto the smoke deck.  But when I got up on the lifeboat deck, I just stopped and I looked up. 
     And I was, like, this ain't -- I said, this can't be happening. I said, there is no way we could put that fire out.
     COOPER:  What did it look like? 
     JACOBS:  It -- it looked like you was looking at the face of death.  I mean, you could hear it, see it, smell it.  I mean, it was like -- it was the worst thing I had ever seen. 
     COOPER:  How high were the flames? 
     CHOY:  They were -- they were way up the derrick.  They were probably, I want to say 150 foot then.  They were probably three- quarters of the way up the derrick.  And I was, like, you know, there's no way we're going to put that out.  And I said, we're leaving here.  And I...
     COOPER:  That's when you knew... 
     (CROSSTALK) 
     COOPER:  ... leave?
     CHOY:  Yes.  
     (CROSSTALK) 
     CHOY:  I know we were -- even if we -- the firefighting equipment would have worked, we couldn't reach it.  We couldn't reach the top of the flames or anything.  
     COOPER:  And where were you for the first explosion?  
     BROWN:  I was -- by this time, I had stood up from my computer, and I was standing in front of the engine room console.  And the explosion took me from behind and threw me up against that console.  
     COOPER:  So, you were actually knocked against that -- the console?  
     (CROSSTALK) 
     BROWN:  Very -- yes, very violently.  
     COOPER:  And -- and what was that explosion like?  
     BROWN:  It was like being hit by a freight train from behind. And it hurt.  It just totally lifted me up a few inches and carried me forward into the console.  And the wind was knocked out of me.  I was dazed.  And this floor completely collapsed.  And I fell down into this hole, about, I would say, a two-foot drop, and found myself laying on my back down there.  
     COOPER:  And then what happened?  
     BROWN:  I was really confused.  And I started to get up.  And I made it up to my hands and knees, and another -- the second explosion hit us.
     And this one, I have no idea which direction it came from.  To me, it was just completely all around me.  And that threw me back down on the floor again.  And now, at this point, I'm scared, scared to death.  I figured, this is my time.  I'm going to die.  
     (CROSSTALK) 
     COOPER:  The explosions were that big?  
     BROWN:  Yes, they were that big.  
     COOPER:  And when the first explosion hit what, did you see? What did you feel?  
     BARRON:  Oh, man, it was -- it was awful.  And I turned around, and so did Caleb (ph).  And we started looking up at the derrick.  And the derrick was just on fire.  And then all the lights went out.       And the -- the mud is still coming down, and the -- and the seawater and everything is just -- it's just flooding us, like a -- like a thunderstorm.  And then we're in the complete dark.  You know, and it's dark outside.  And the only light we had was the light from the -- the fire.  And that's when the second explosion happened.  
     COOPER:  And you don't -- you don't remember any of this at this point?  
     BRENT MANSFIELD, BP EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  No, sir.  
     COOPER:  No.
     MANSFIELD:  And, in fact, Doug was probably the first person that I had gotten in contact with after I got to the hospital, when, you know, I didn't know where I was working at the time, you know, when I started -- really, after I saw my family, and... 
     COOPER:  It's OK.  It's hard for all of you.  I mean, it's tough to talk about.  
     BROWN:  It's very hard.  
     MANSFIELD:  (INAUDIBLE) helped me out of there.
     COOPER:  So, you heard that Brent was -- was down?  
     BROWN:  Yes, I heard he was down.  The other motormen with us went back in to help the other motormen get Brent out.
     And because the electrical technician was bleeding, he was injured, and he wasn't quite all there, he was panicking, I decided to stay with him, and we went to the bridge.  I looked up at the fire on the rig floor, and it was getting larger, and that was scaring me.  
     It was starting to spread down on -- down on to the main deck, and it was actually so bright, you couldn't even look at it anymore. It actually started sounding like a living thing, because it was hissing so loudly.  It was almost sounding like the beginnings of a roar of a creature.  
     COOPER:  The fire actually sounded almost alive?  
     BROWN:  Yes.  And it just continued to grow.  And, finally, the order was given for us to board the lifeboats.  
     (END VIDEOTAPE) 
     COOPER:  Coming up: the struggle to escape.  For the crew, getting on the lifeboats didn't end the nightmare.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     BARRON:  You know, people were screaming and yelling.  And, you know, we just got on the lifeboat.  And, I mean, it was even worse.  I mean, that was probably the worst part of it, was being in the lifeboat.  
     COOPER:  Why?  
     BARRON:  Because it was just -- it's like you're almost waiting to die.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     COOPER:  There were 126 people on the Deepwater Horizon when it exploded in the Gulf.  Eleven perished.  One hundred and fifteen others made it out alive.  
     Tonight, we're bringing you the stories of five of these survivors, in exclusive interviews you won't see anywhere else.  
     Before the break, they told us about the massive fire that engulfed the rig.  The flames, they said, were everywhere, and time was running out.  Some scrambled to lifeboats as the only way to escape.  Listen.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
     COOPER:  What was the scene like in the lifeboat when you got there? 
     BARRON:  It was -- it was insane.  I mean, people were just jumping in the lifeboats.  There was other people -- because there's -- there's two lifeboats side by side.  And you're assigned to each one. 
     COOPER:  And each lifeboat fit about 75 people?
     BARRON:  Yes.  
     But people were just running and jumping in them.  And, you know, it's dark.  And, you know, people were screaming and yelling.  And, you know, we just got on the lifeboat.  And, I mean, it was even worse.  I mean, that was probably the worst part of it, was being in the lifeboat. 
     COOPER:  Why? 
     BARRON:  Because it was just -- it's like you're almost waiting to die.  There's people screaming, you know, put it in the water. Let's go.  
     And it's filling up with smoke.  And you can feel the heat from the fire. 
     In fact, one of the guys that was on the lifeboat, he actually -- he panicked so much that he got up out of the lifeboat and then jumped overboard, because it -- it just seemed like it took forever.  
     COOPER:  When you're sitting on that boat, what did you think?  I mean, what's going through your mind?  
     CHOY:  I was fixing to get back off, because we are sitting there, and everybody's screaming, you know, the derrick's going to fall.  The derrick's going to fall on us.  And when -- they said they couldn't get the motor cranked, I had my -- my seat belt and everything on in there already.  
     I took it back off.  I was like, well, I didn't -- I'm not going to burn up in a lifeboat, if they can't get the motor cranked.  I said, I'm fixing to jump.  
     COOPER:  You were going to jump off the rig?  
     CHOY:  Yes, I was going to climb back out and jump off.
     COOPER:  Was the water on fire at all?  Did anybody actually see the water?  
     CHOY:  You could see it underneath the rig.  The water was on fire. 
     COOPER:  The water was on fire?
     And what was it like, sitting there waiting for the others to come and waiting for it to get -- to get lowered?  
     JACOBS:  I mean, we were just screaming to everybody, you know, get on a boat.  Get on a boat.  
     And I remember another explosion.  And when it exploded, the lifeboat free-fell for about three foot, and then just stopped all of a sudden.  I was scared to death sitting there in that lifeboat.  I said, I done made it out of my room, and out of the living quarters, and here I am on a lifeboat that's supposed to help get me off this rig, and I'm going to wind up dying on this lifeboat.  
     And, you know, the only thing going through my mind is, you know, family back home, you know, and I just -- I started praying.  I didn't know what else to do.  
     COOPER:  What did you pray for?  
     JACOBS:  I prayed for my family to let God know that I love my wife and that I love my kids, and that he would help me and everybody else get off this boat safely, get off the rig safely. 
     CHOY:  They finally got the motor started.  And we got in.  They put us down in the water.  
     COOPER:  Did you look at the rig? 
     CHOY:  Oh, yes, we were right there.  I mean, we were probably not even a mile away from it.  And we sat there for, like, seven hours watching the rig burn.  You know, you look at it one way, if you -- you could sit there and watch it burn, and finally, I was, like, I -- you know, I can't watch that.       And, so, I turned around and sat down to turn away from it.  And I looked up, and there's the giant windows on the wheelhouse of the boat.  And you see the reflection in it there. 
     So, it was like there was no getting away from it, but to try to close your eyes.  And every time you would close your eyes, you would see all the -- everything just replaying.  Yes, that's one image I will never forget the rest of my life is -- is from when I was on the boat watching it burn. 
     (END VIDEOTAPE) 
     COOPER:  Next: an unknown fate -- the wives of the oil workers trying to reach their husbands and, they say, being kept in the dark.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  There was one moment, I thought I was fixing to have a nervous breakdown.  And I had to pull it together, because I knew I still had my son there to take care of, and I knew that I had to find out, you know, if Matt was OK or not.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     JOE JOHNS, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT:  I'm Joe Johns.
     "Deepwater Disaster: Survivor Stories" continues in a moment -- first, a 360 news and business bulletin.  
     The death doll from a flash flood that swept through a packed campground in Arkansas is at least 16, with dozens believed missing and feared dead.  The governor told CNN there's no way to know exactly how many are unaccounted for.  Heavy rains caused the Little Missouri River to overflow early today as campers slept nearby.  
     In Peru, Joran van der Sloot was charged with murder and robbery in last week's slaying of 21-year-old Stephany Flores Ramirez.  The 22-year-old Dutch citizen was ordered detained until trial.  Van der Sloot was the prime suspect in the disappearance of Natalee Holloway, an American teenager who vanished in Aruba five years ago.  
     After a choppy session, the Dow posted its first weekly gain in a month.  The index took deep losses after a disappointing retail sales report, but closed up 38 points.  
     That's the latest -- back to "Deepwater Disaster: Survivor Stories" after this short break.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     COOPER:  Tonight we're bringing you our exclusive interviews with a group of survivors from the Deepwater Horizon rig.  
     In our candid and emotional conversations we're learning details about what happened on that rig back on April 20th.  The full story, of course, isn't known yet.  There are going to be investigations -- long and many investigations, but we've talked to five survivors who talk about their suffering and about their suffering and their families.  
     The wives of three of the survivors have gripping stories to tell about the fears that they faced on that day.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     COOPER (voice-over):  It was just dawn, about 5:45, when the phone woke Angela Hopkins-Jacobs.  She didn't know that eight hours earlier 50 miles out in the Gulf the Deepwater Horizon had exploded. Her husband Matt worked on the rig.  
     ANGELA HOPKINS-JACOBS, WIFE OF BP EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  The lady said this is so and so with Transocean, and I lost it because I knew something was wrong.  And she said that we've had to evacuate the rig, and I was hysterical.  
     I said is he OK?  Is he OK?  And she said I don't know any details.  I can't tell you anything.  
     I had just lost it.  My son, you know, was asking, what's wrong, what's wrong, and I said -- I couldn't, you know, speak.  
     COOPER:  As the platform fire raged, Matt was waiting to be lowered from the rig in a lifeboat.  The inferno, the damage so intense, he was certain he wouldn't make it out alive.  
     MATTHEW JACOBS, BP EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  I prayed for my family to let God know that -- you know, I love my wife and that I love my kids and that he would help me and everybody else get off the rig safely, and the whole time, you know, it's going through my mind.  
     You know, I'm never going to see my family again, you know, because this is it, you know.  We're -- we're done.  
     COOPER (on camera):  You were sure that was it for you?  
     JACOBS:  Yes, sir.  
     A. JACOBS:  I had started calling hospitals down in Louisiana, Alabama, because I heard on the news that they were taking some of the injured to the hospitals there.  
     They had no record of him being in the hospital, so you know, at that time I'm thinking, well, he's not injured.  I don't know if he's dead.  
     COOPER (voice-over):  That same morning no one from the company had contacted Daniel Barron's wife Amanda.  She hadn't heard about the catastrophe and then her brother called.  
     AMANDA COOPER-BARRON, WIFE OF BP EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  He just goes, what rig does Dan work on again?  And I said Deepwater Horizon, why?  He goes, I thought it sounded too familiar.  And I'm like, what -- you know, why do you need to know?  What's going on?  And he just -- his rig has exploded.  
     DANIEL BARRON III, BP EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  Can you imagine what our wives were going through?  She didn't get a call until 2:00 that afternoon, and basically there's like hey, this is Transocean.  We want to let you know your husband is on the boat, and she's like oh, my god, you know, what happened?  
     That's all we can tell you.  We just want to let you know he's on the boat.  So she doesn't know if I'm hurt, injured, you know, burned. She doesn't know anything.  
     COOPER:  Doug Brown's wife Meccah did get a call in the middle of the night.  
     MECCAH BOYNTON-BROWN, WIFE OF BP EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  I was told he was injured.  There was really no other information given at the time.  I was told that he would be taken to a hospital but not knowing what hospital, in what state, and nobody contacting me telling me where he was going.  
     And so I really upset a lot of emergency rooms in the south calling hospital after hospital after hospital for hours trying to figure out where my husband was.  
     DOUG BROWN, BP EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  I had fractured my leg, and bruised some nerves, did some damage under my kneecap and pulled some ligaments, as well as some mild brain injury.  
     COOPER:  That afternoon, after a desperate morning on the phone trying to find Doug, Meccah got another call from Transocean.  
     M. BROWN:  I did receive a very rehearsed.  I would probably put that's my best -- very rehearsed.  There was -- there was an incident. We have no further information at this time.  We'll call you when we know something else.  Click.  
     COOPER:  All three wives say Transocean seemed totally unprepared, just not able to handle a crisis the size of the Deepwater Horizon.  
     M. BROWN:  I don't think the men and women that are out on rigs currently are really ultimately safe, and to ask my husband to go back out there, I'd rather work five part-time jobs to make -- to make ends meet than to ask him to put his life on the line.  
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     COOPER:  We sought reaction from Transocean to our reporting, and the company sent a statement.  It reads, "Transocean's first commitment has always been the safety and well-being of its people."  
     The statement goes on to say, "Immediately following the news of the tragic accident on April 20th, Transocean family support groups were dispatched to Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama to receive rescued crew members and support their families in every way they could."  
     It concludes, "This continues to be the top focus of the company and the entire Transocean family."  
     With the drilling behind schedule, the oil workers say the pressure on them was building.  So were the risks, they say.  Coming up accusations of unsafe conditions on the rig.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     D. BROWN:  If they're going to cut corners and over look things, they're not being safe.  They are jeopardizing us all out there.  
     (END OF VIDEO CLIP)
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     COOPER:  On April 20th, a series of explosions rocked the Deepwater Horizon.  Flames engulfed the rig.  The explosion triggered this massive oil leak.  
     Tonight, five survivors are speaking out about what they heard and what they saw leading up to the disaster.  You'll learn of an argument between a BP executive and a Transocean official, an argument two of the workers say happened that morning over how to proceed with the drilling.  A significant moment possibly central to a criminal case against BP.  
     Here's more from our exclusive interview.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     COOPER (on camera):  And you were saying they were cutting corners.  What -- what would their motivation be?  
     D. BROWN:  To finish the job faster, to save money.  
     COOPER:  And you think that's what this is about?  It was about saving time, saving money?  
     D. BROWN:  Well, yes.  They were over budget on it, so yes.  They were cutting corners to -- for time and money.  
     COOPER (voice-over):  Two of the men who survived the BP oil rig fire and collapse are trying to explain an argument they say they witnessed on the platform about 12 hours before the first explosion.  
     It was an argument, they say, between Transocean and BP managers. 
     D. BROWN:  The meeting was a pre-tower meeting basically.  They go over the day's events, what's going to be taking place on the drill floor.  And while I was giving the company man basically jumped up and says no, we've got some changes.  
     COOPER (on camera):  The company man is from BP?  
     D. BROWN:  Yes.  
     COOPER:  The driller is Transocean.  
     D. BROWN:  The driller is Transocean, yes.  And the company man basically said we have some changes to that.  We're going to be doing something different.  I recall it was something about displacing the riser with the seawater for that tower.  
     COOPER:  Taking drilling mud out.  
     D. BROWN:  Yes.  
     COOPER:  And replacing it with seawater?  
     D. BROWN:  Yes.  
     COOPER (voice-over):  Brown and others say the argument raised concerns because replacing dense mud with seawater meant less pressure to hold the oil down.  
     (On camera):  Why would they want to displace it with salt water? 
     D. BARRON:  To make it quicker for the production well to get in once we capped the well.  
     COOPER:  That was the idea.  They wanted to close off the well.  
     D. BARRON:  They were getting ready to go to the next well and they were there trying, you know, to make it easier for the production crew to get it because it took so much time for us to drill this well and get it done.  
     COOPER (voice-over):  Drilling on the Deepwater Horizon was already five weeks behind schedule, according to the rig workers, and a rough cost of $750,000 a day, that delay meant the project was more than $26 million over budget.  
     The survivors say there was pressure to finish the drilling and begin actually pumping out oil.  
     (On camera):  You're saying this was an argument between some Transocean people and the guy from BP?  
     D. BROWN:  Correct, and basically he ended up saying, well, this is how it's going to be, and they started reluctantly agreeing and --  
     COOPER:  You're saying the guy from BP won the argument basically?  He basically said this is how we're going to do it?  
     D. BROWN:  Yes, that's what I remember, yes.  He basically said, well, this is how it's going to be.  
     COOPER:  Dan, do you think that, too?  That this was about saving time, saving money for BP, for Transocean?  
     D. BARRON:  Yes.  Yes.  And it just bothers me that Transocean would let them, you know, as much as Transocean preaches safety, you know, it doesn't make sense that Transocean would just fold like that if it wasn't over money.  
     COOPER (voice-over):  Attorney Steve Gordon represents all five survivors we interviewed.  
     (On camera):  You're saying that BP was negligent, yes?  
     STEVE GORDON, ATTORNEY SURVIVORS:  At least.  
     COOPER:  At least.  
     GORDON:  That's putting it nicely.  I would say --  
     COOPER:  How would you put it?  
     GORDON:  Well, I -- I've seen negligence.  I've seen gross negligence, and this conduct is criminal, what they did.  
     COOPER:  Criminal?  
     GORDON:  Yes.  There's a crime scene sitting 5,000 feet below the water.  
     COOPER:  What way do you think that they are criminally negligent?  
     GORDON:  You heard my clients say that BP came in and overrode the decision of the driller at Transocean.  When they did that, they in essence took over on that day, and the decision that they made to displace the mud with salt water on a well that they knew had dangerous propensities I believe is criminal.  
     COOPER:  What do you think was more important to BP or to Transocean -- time and money or safety?  
     D. BARRON:  Time and money, in all honesty.  I mean they preach safety.  It's like safety is only convenient for them when they need it.  You know, you're pressured and you're pushed to do things, and if you say, hey, you know, everybody has the right to call time-out for safety, but you do it.  
     You're going to get run off, you know.  You're going to get fired, and they are not going to fire you for that, but they are going to figure out a way eventually to get rid of you.  
     COOPER:  And you've seen that happen?  
     D. BARRON:  Yes.  I have actually, yes, I have.  
     COOPER (voice-over):  Even on that argument on the day of the explosion the survivors we talked to said they had had other concerns. 
     D. BARRON:  There was always like an ominous feeling when we were on that well, you know, and a lot of people were telling everybody else, you know, on the rig, you know, it was like chatter that, you know, we're messing with Mother Nature right now.  
     I mean, there was always something, you know, either a kick or we're getting stuck or we're getting large amounts of gas.  
     COOPER (on camera):  And what is a kick?  
     D. BARRON:  A kick is when we get an air bubble or a gas bubble coming up, or the mud water coming up.  
     COOPER:  And that's a problem?  I mean that's --  
     D. BARRON:  Yes.  
     COOPER:  The CEO of BP, Tony Hayward, he makes a big deal about the company's safety record and that safety is their number one priority.  Do you -- do you believe that?  
     D. BROWN:  I believe he believes it.  And I --  
     COOPER:  You think he's wrong?  
     D. BROWN:  I used to believe it, but after this incident I'm not so sure I do anymore.  Not after what I've seen.  They're not being safe.  They're jeopardizing us all out there.  
     COOPER:  Matt, do you believe that safety was their number one concern?  
     M. JACOBS:  Uhm-mm.  All BP is worried about is -- is money.  
     COOPER:  When you hear BP's Tony Hayward say he wants his life back, what do you think?  
     D. BARRON:  I want my life back.  You know?  I'm sure you want your life back, too.  
     M. JACOBS:  Yes.  
     D. BARRON:  And I'm sure, you know, there's 11 guys out there that their wives want them back.  
     D. BROWN:  Yes.  We all agree with that.  He wants his life back. We all want our lives back.  We want to be able to sleep a normal night's sleep for once.  We'd like all those D. BROWN:  families out there of the 11 who don't have their husbands, their fathers, their sons, I'm sure they would want them back, but he wants his life back.  
     What about everyone else that was on that rig that night?  
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     COOPER:  CNN reached out to both BP and Transocean to respond to this story.  The BP spokesman wouldn't comment on specific allegations but said BP's priority is always safety.  
     The Transocean spokesperson said in part, "Safety is the number one priority at Transocean, and there's no scenario or circumstance under which it will be compromised."  
     Regarding criminal allegations, a BP spokesperson said they will, quote, "cooperate with any inquiry the Department of Justice will undertake just as we're doing in response to the other inquiries that are already ongoing."  
     Coming up next, paying tribute to those who lost their lives. Remembering the men who died on the Deepwater Horizon when this 360 special continues.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     COOPER:  Eleven men died on the Deepwater Horizon, the oldest was 56, the youngest was just 22.  
     Jason Anderson was a toolpusher on the rig, the kind of guy his family says who didn't really like to go out fishing but went anyway just to spend time with his friends.  
     Donald Clark was an assistant driller, the father of four.  He's remembered as soft spoken with an excellent work ethic.  
     Stephen Curtis was also an assistant driller.  He was crazy about the outdoors and even wore a chamoed (ph) tuxedo vest on his wedding day.  
     Gordon Jones was a drilling fluid specialist and mud engineer. They call him a rabid LSU fan.  His second son Maxwell was born after the rig exploded.  He obviously never got to see him.  
     Wyatt Kemp was a derrick hand who loved hunting and fishing and remembered for his sense of humor and love of his family.  
     Karl Kleppinger Jr. was a floor hand on the rig.  An army vet who served in Operation Desert Storm.  He loved NASCAR and professional wrestling but cats not so much, I'm told.  He actually called the family cat Dog.  
     Blair Manuel was a senior drilling fluid specialist whose credo for life was the four F's -- fun, family, friends and faith.  
     Dewey Revette was a driller.  He's remembered for his smile and for giving everything he had to everything he did.  
     Shane Roshto was a floor hand and a deeply devoted family man. On the inside of his hard hat he wrote two dates -- his wedding date and his young son's birthday -- to get him through the bad days.  
     Adam Weise, he was also a floor hand.  A former high school football star who's beloved in his own town.  
     And Dale Burkeen was a crane operator known as Bubba to those close to him.  His friends and family he lived life large.  
     Tonight we honor these 11 men.  Five survivors of the explosion share the horrifying moments when they last saw their co-workers.       (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     COOPER (voice-over):  Some of the survivors saw a good friend of theirs die in the explosion.  His name was Dale Burkeen, a crane operator on the rig.  
     D. BARRON:  He was in the crane on the first explosion and was trying to get out of crane.  I mean, he just -- he was running down the stairs.  He was on the -- by the handrail about to come down to the stairs and then the second explosion happened.  
     And it literally picked him up.  I mean, like -- like a child would throw a toy and -- and it had just picked him up and threw him, you know, over the handrail, and he ended up bouncing off of the pedestal for the crane.  
     He's like a father -- father figure on the rig because he was just so kind and would teach anything you needed to know and, you know, just to see him get blown up like that, I mean, it was -- it's heart wrenching.  I cannot explain it.  
     COOPER (on camera):  Was it the impact that -- did the explosion kill him or the fall?  
     D. BARRON:  Yes, I think he was dead when it exploded.  
     CHRIS CHOY, BP EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  I ran to the -- my front fire station.  
     COOPER (voice-over):  Chris Choy heard that Dale Burkeen had been injured.  He and a fellow rig worker tried to rescue him.  
     CHOY:  He said I seen Dale Burkeen, the crane operator.  I see Dale down.  He's -- he's down over by the starboard crane.  He said it's too hot I can't get to him.  So we put fire suits on to try to go get Dale, and before we could get there, there was another explosion, and that jut put massive flames in between us and the -- and that side of the deck.  
     We couldn't get to Dale, and it -- I mean, that feeling is just indescribable, knowing that I didn't know, you know, that he had fallen or anything like that.  I just knew he was laying down on the deck right there, just knowing somebody is right there and there's nothing you can do for them.  
     COOPER (on camera):  You couldn't get to him because of the flames then?  
     CHOY:  Because of the flames.  
     COOPER:  What was Dale like?  
     D. BROWN:  Dale was like everybody's big brother.  Best friend you could have.  Would give you the shirt off his back.  Anything you needed -- needed to talk to him, needed a friend to talk to -- Dale was the man.  He looked after all his people that worked under him, and he was friends with everyone there.  
     COOPER (voice-over):  Ten others died that night.  Daniel Barron worked on the rig floor closest to the first explosion.  Nine men were working there that moment.  Only Daniel and one other survived.  
     D. BARRON:  I don't imagine what it's like for -- for the wives who, you know, they are burying a box.  They are burying a memory. They don't know how they died.  They don't know where they were.  They don't know what they were doing.  
     They were basically giving up their own life, you know, to save 120 something other people, and they are all heroes.  
     COOPER:  Daniel is certain the men died trying to shut down the well, trying to prevent what would become a catastrophe.  
     D. BARRON:  There's, you know, women and children, you know, fathers, mothers, brothers that will never see those 11 men again.  
     D. BROWN:  And I'll never forget my fellow crew members that died.  I knew five of them quite well for years.  They are very good men, and this should not have happened to them.  
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     COOPER:  Remembering and honoring the victims of the Deepwater Horizon.  
     We'll continue to cover this disaster in the Gulf to give you the latest facts and to hold those responsible accountable.  
     Thanks for watching this special edition of 360.  Good night.  

	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired June 11, 2010 - 23:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Good evening again from Louisiana.
We've been telling you for weeks, the difficulties that scientists have had in measuring how much oil is flowing into the Gulf.
In the beginning, you know, BP said it was 1,000 -- 1,000 barrels, and the government said 5,000 and then 12,000 to 19,000 and then 12,000 to 25,000 and now to 20,000 to 40,000.  But the truth is it could be much higher.
Today for the first time the government's man-in-charge Admiral Thad Allen said they are going to lower sensors down underwater to the well to directly measure the leak.
Now, this is what researchers -- private, independent researchers have been demanding that BP has been blocking for weeks, measuring the leak by, you know, actually measuring the leak.  All along BP has said it doesn't need to be measured because they were planning for a worst case scenario.  But today further evidence that they didn't plan well enough.
They are siphoning off some 15,000 barrels of oil they say from the well every day, which is almost as much as the tanker on scene can handle.  Now had they had a better estimate of the leak to begin with, of course, perhaps they would have had more resources on the scene right now.
Let's bring in Plaquemine's parish president Billy Nungesser.  Billy thanks very much for being with us.  I know it's been busy a couple of days for you.
Wolf Blitzer asked Admiral Allen today specifically about your concerns that you don't know who is in charge down here.
That's what you said in testimony in Washington yesterday.  He says he's assigned a Coast Guard officer to each of the parish presidents but if you had any concerns he'd be willing to meet with you.  What do you make of that?  Do you really not know who is in charge?
BILLY NUNGESSER, PRESIDENT, PLAQUEMINES PARISH:  Well, we've got a great guy in Sam that is in our headquarters, but everything has got to go up the chain of command.  And then we have another guy in Venice that is very passionate, but I don't think either one of them can make a decision, and that's the problem.
Tomorrow morning I'm going to go to Houma with another plan, just like Governor Jindal got approval finally for the suction machinery.  Well, we've some got other plans we'll present tomorrow in Houma.
But you know we fight just as hard to get things that'll help us get the oil out.  I don't want to fight with anybody.  I want to be on the same team, but it hasn't worked that way, except when the President came down.
Each time the President came, things happened.  Other than that, yes, they'll check in to him and they'll get back with us, but nothing happens.  You know, we went out for three hours and saw no skimmers, a lot of oil, no skimmers; totally unacceptable.
COOPER:  Now, what is the situation with those vacuum devices because I went out with the governor I think when you were in Washington?  And he -- he basically had like five of these things working.  You basically took an 18-wheeler vacuum truck, put it on a barge, tied it down and just started vacuuming up to see if it would work, and it seemed to work.
Is BP going to pay for that?  They wanted to do it on -- you guys wanted to do it on a big scale and get like 100 of them.  Is that going to happen?
NUNGESSER:  Right.  I think they approved five or six of them or as many as 13, I heard today.  We'll find out tomorrow exactly.  But you're right, there ought to be everything we can deploy we ought to deploy.  The local paper had them cleaning up on an island.  It looks like Scott Towels they laid down, and a bunch of workers looking at the towels in the pools of oil.
Just like wiping the blades of grass.  Where is the management on those teams?  Why isn't that oil being raked up in a pile and let's get after it and get on?  I mean, that is just a band-aid on -- when we need major surgery.
COOPER:  The Admiral also said, you know, that he's hoping to get these sensors down to the leaking pipe to actually get some pressure readings over the next couple of days to get a more accurate flow.  I mean, it's kind of stunning that on day 52 this is just happening. This is the kind of thing you would think would have happened long ago.
NUNGESSER:  Absolutely.
You know, Anderson, it's just like they said, you know, 20 and 30 acres of Plaquemine's Parish has been infested with the oil.  We GPSed it and went out with a helicopter and a boat.  It's a little over 3,000 acres so they are off a few acres.  And we -- you know, that's their estimate compared to the actual facts that we went out and measured.
So when you're off that much, that's not a mistake.  That's misleading, and we -- we find out all across the board here.  I'm really growing frustrated.  We're going to give the new BP guy until Monday.  We took him out.  He touched the oil.  We'll give him a week.
We've got to see more action out on the water quickly.  We're getting in a hurricane season.  We need this oil cleaned up, be out there waiting for the next oil to come in.  Not just always chasing the oil, and that's what we're doing now.
COOPER:  Yes.  I mean, day 52, it's easy for people I think who aren't here to start to think of this as well the same old-same old, and just routine, but no one should ever think about this as routine.  Each day it has sort of fresh disasters.  Each day the urgency should be building, not lessening for folks who aren't here.
Billy, I appreciate your time tonight.  We'll talk to you more all next week of course when we're here live from the Gulf.
Now our exclusive interviews with the survivors of the DeepWater Horizon, where a series of deadly explosions led to this -- the greatest environmental disaster in American history.
In extraordinary detail tonight, gut wrenching accounts, you're going to hear from a group of men aboard that doomed rig, five of them. From the first signs of trouble to the desperate efforts to save others and themselves, we're going to bring you that.
These survivors will also tell you about the safety questions they had and why they say they believed BP was cutting corners and taking risk.
Tonight's report is a partnership with 360 and CNN's Special Investigations Unit.
We begin with that moment that changed everything.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
COOPER (voice-over):  April 20th, the Gulf of Mexico, 51 miles off the coast of Louisiana, a crew of 126.  Some of the best oil industry engineers in the world were five weeks behind schedule drilling a stubborn well a mile deep.
A few minutes before 10:00 p.m., they heard a noise they had never heard before.
DOUG BROWN, BP EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  We began hearing loud hissing and venting sound.
MATTHEW JACOBS, DEEPWATER HORIZON EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  And it just kept getting louder and louder.  I said, "Something's not right."
DANIEL BARRON III, DEEPWATER HORIZON EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  He just looked at me and he goes, "Man, I smell gas."
And I said, "What do we do?"
And he goes, "Run."
COOPER:  Eleven men would die that night.  The question is, what happened and why?  In the weeks before that terrible moment, crew members we spoke to say everyone felt pressure to get the well drilled and the oil flowing.  Some worried about cutting corners.
COOPER (on camera):  Do you believe that safety is their number one concern?
JACOBS:  Uh-uh.  All BP is worried about is the money.
COOPER (voice-over):  The day of the explosion, at least two survivors say they witnessed an argument between the driller, TransOcean, and a BP manager who wanted to press ahead.
(on camera):  You're saying the guy from BP won the argument, basically?  He basically, said, well, this is how we're going to do it?
BROWN:  Yes.  That's what I remember, yes.  He basically said, well, this is how it's going to be.
BARRON:  There was always, like, an ominous feeling when we were on that well, you know.  There was like that chatter that, you know, we're messing with Mother Nature right now.
COOPER (voice-over):  About 11 hours later, 9:56 p.m., the loud hissing erupted into a series of explosions that would engulf the massive rig.
BROWN:  And it was actually so bright you couldn't even look at it any more.
It actually started sounding like a living thing, because it was hissing so loudly.  It was almost sounding like the beginnings of a roar of a creature.
AMANDA COOPER-BARRON, WIFE OF BP OIL RIG SURVIVOR:  He just goes, "What rig does Dan work on again?"  And I said, "Deepwater Horizon. Why?"  And he goes, "His rig has exploded."
CHRIS CHOY, BP EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  Everybody's screaming, that derrick's going to fall.  The derrick's going to fall on us.
BARRON:  One of the guys that was on the lifeboat, he actually -- he panicked so much that he got up and then jumped overboard.
JACOBS:  And it looked like you was looking at the face of death.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
COOPER:  Coming up next on 360, you'll hear more from the survivors in their own words: how the fire started and how the fear quickly spread.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JACOBS:  On the hallway, I mean, there's people screaming and hollering.  I mean, it's -- it's like the movie "Titanic" right before the ship sinks. (END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
COOPER:  Welcome back to "Deepwater Disaster: Survivor Stories", our exclusive report on the tragedy aboard the oil rig, a tragedy that turned into a catastrophe here in the Gulf.
In this hour, we're letting the men who survived the inferno tell you their stories about what happened that night off the Coast of Louisiana.  Their accounts are harrowing and heartbreaking.
How did it begin?  That's what we wanted to know.
Let's take you back to April 20th, a routine night for the crew, until they heard something they'll never forget.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
BROWN:  We began hearing the loud hissing and venting sound.
COOPER:  And that was -- that was methane escaping?
BROWN:  Yes.
COOPER:  Had you ever heard anything like it before?
BROWN:  Not like this, no.  It was extremely loud.
COOPER:  And did you -- did all you guys hear it?
JACOBS:  It kept going and going and going.  And it just kept getting louder and louder.  And I said, "Something is not right."
CHOY:  I was asleep.  And they woke me up, the sound from it.  I didn't know what it was.  I just heard that -- that loud hissing sound.
COOPER:  And what did you see?
BARRON:  The other guy had a radio, and we ran back to the phone, and he picked up the phone.  And he just looked at me and he goes, "Man, I smell gas."
And I said, "What do we do?"  He goes, "Run," you know?
COOPER:  He said run?
BARRON:  Yes, he said run.  And, luckily, we were right by the door. And when we came down to the door, less than maybe 30 seconds later, this whole derrick was on fire.
COOPER:  And, I mean, what kind of flames, how big a fire?
BARRON:  Oh, it was huge.  I mean just massive, I mean something that you would never expect to see.  I mean we were in shock. COOPER:  But you actually saw the flames?
BARRON:  Oh, yes, definitely.  Yes.  It was pretty crazy.  And, I mean the mud and seawater and gas was just coming down on us, like it was raining.
COOPER:  It actually felt like rain?  There was actually mud raining down on you?
BARRON:  Oh, yes.  Yes.  I mean, it was -- 
COOPER:  Where was the mud coming from?
BARRON:  From -- from the rotary cable.  It was coming back up through the well.
COOPER:  So, mud was literally exploding up through the water?
BARRON:  Yes.
COOPER:  I mean, through the well?
BARRON:  Through the well, yes, up through -- to the crown of the derrick.
JACOBS:  And out in the hallway, I mean, there's people screaming, hollering.  I mean, it's -- it's like the movie "Titanic" right before the ship sinks.  Everybody is just hysterical.
And when I get there, I mean, I could feel the heat from the flames as soon as I come out onto the smoke deck.  But when I got up on the lifeboat deck, I just stopped and I looked up.
And I was, like, this isn't -- I said, "This can't be happening."  I said, "There is no way we could put that fire out."
COOPER:  What did it look like?
JACOBS:  It -- it looked like you was looking at the face of death.  I mean, you could hear it, see it, smell it.  I mean, it was like -- it was the worst thing I had ever seen.
COOPER:  How high were the flames?
CHOY:  They were -- they were way up the derrick.  They were probably -- I want to say 150 foot then.  They were probably three-quarters of the way up the derrick.  And I was, like, you know, there's no way we're going to put that out.  And I said, "We're leaving here."  And I -- 
COOPER:  That's when you knew -- 
(CROSSTALK)
COOPER:  -- that you need to leave?
CHOY:  Yes.
(CROSSTALK)
CHOY:  I know we were -- even if the firefighting equipment would have worked, we couldn't reach it.  We couldn't reach the top of the flames or anything.
COOPER:  And where were you for the first explosion?
BROWN:  I was -- by this time, I had stood up from my computer, and I was standing in front of the engine room console.  And the explosion took me from behind and threw me up against that console.
COOPER:  So, you were actually knocked against that -- the console?
BROWN:  Very -- yes, very violently.
COOPER:  And -- and I mean, what was that explosion like?
BROWN:  It was like being hit by a freight train from behind and it hurt.  It just totally lifted me up a few inches and carried me forward into the console.  And the wind was knocked out of me.  I was dazed.
And this floor completely collapsed.  And I fell down into this hole, about I would say, a two-foot drop, and found myself laying on my back down there.
COOPER:  And then what happened?
BROWN:  I was really confused.  And I started to get up.  And I made it up to my hands and knees and another -- the second explosion hit us.
And this one, I have no idea which direction it came from.  To me, it was just completely all around me.  And that threw me back down on the floor again.  And now, at this point, I'm scared, scared to death.  I figured this is my time; I'm going to die.
(CROSSTALK)
COOPER:  The explosions were that big?
BROWN:  Yes, they were that big.
COOPER:  And when the first explosion hit, what did you see?  What did you feel?
BARRON:  Oh, man, it was -- it was awful.  And I turned around, and so did Caleb (ph).  And we started looking up at the derrick.  And the derrick was just on fire.  And then all the lights went out.  And the -- the mud is still coming down, and the -- and the seawater and everything is just -- it's just flooding us like a -- like a thunderstorm.
And then we're in the complete dark.  You know, and it's dark outside. And the only light we had was the light from the -- the fire.  And that's when the second explosion happened.
COOPER:  And you don't -- you don't remember any of this at this point?
BRENT MANSFIELD, BP EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  No, sir.
COOPER:  No.
MANSFIELD:  And, in fact, Doug was probably the first person that I had gotten in contact with after I got to the hospital when, you know, I didn't know where I was working at the time, you know, when I started -- really, after I saw my family and -- 
COOPER:  It's ok.  It's hard for all of you.  I mean it's tough to talk about.
BROWN:  It's very hard.
MANSFIELD:  (INAUDIBLE) helped me out of there.
COOPER:  So, you heard that Brent was -- was down?
BROWN:  Yes, I heard he was down.  The other motormen with us went back in to help the other motormen get Brent out.
And because the electrical (ph) technician was bleeding, he was injured, and he wasn't quite all there, he was panicking, I decided to stay with him, and we went to the bridge.
I looked up at the fire on the rig floor and it was getting larger, and that was scaring me.  It was starting to spread down on -- down on to the main deck.  And it was actually so bright you couldn't even look at it anymore.
It actually started sounding like a living thing, because it was hissing so loudly.  It was almost sounding like the beginnings of a roar of a creature.
COOPER:  The fire actually sounded almost alive?
BROWN:  Yes.  And it just continued to grow.  And, finally, the order was given for us to board the lifeboats.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
COOPER:  Coming up: The struggle to escape.  For the crew, getting on the lifeboats didn't end the nightmare.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BARRON:  People were screaming and yelling.  And, you know, we just got on the lifeboat.  And, I mean it was even worse.  I mean, that was probably the worst part of it, being in the lifeboat.
COOPER:  Why?
BARRON:  Because it was just -- it's like you're almost waiting to die.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
COOPER:  There were 126 people on the Deepwater Horizon when it exploded in the Gulf.  Eleven perished; one hundred and fifteen others made it out alive.
Tonight, we're bringing you the stories of five of these survivors in exclusive interviews you won't see anywhere else.
Before the break, they told us about the massive fire that engulfed the rig.  The flames, they said, were everywhere, and time was running out.  Some scrambled to lifeboats as the only way to escape.
Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
COOPER:  What was the scene like at the lifeboat when you got there?
BARRON:  It was -- it was insane.  I mean people were just jumping in the lifeboats.  There's other people -- because there's -- there's two lifeboats side by side.  And you're assigned to each one.
COOPER:  And each lifeboat fit about 75 people?
BARRON:  Yes.
But people were just running and jumping in them.  And, you know, it's dark.  And, you know, people were screaming and yelling.  And, you know, we just got on the lifeboat.
And, I mean it was even worse.  I mean, that was probably the worst part of it, was being in the lifeboat.
COOPER:  Why?
BARRON:  Because it was just -- it's like you're almost waiting to die.  There's people screaming, you know, put it in the water.  Let's go.  And it's filling up with smoke.  And you can feel the heat from the fire.
In fact, one of the guys that was on the lifeboat, he actually -- he panicked so much that he got up out of the lifeboat and then jumped overboard, because it -- it just seemed like it took forever.
COOPER:  When you were sitting on that boat, what did you think?  I mean what's going through your mind?
CHOY:  I was fixing to get back off, because we are sitting there and everybody's screaming, you know, the derrick's going to fall.  The derrick's going to fall on us.  And when -- they said they couldn't get the motor cranked, I had my -- my seat belt and everything on in there already. I took it back off.  I was like, well, I didn't -- I'm not going to burn up in a lifeboat, if they can't get the motor cranked.  I said I'm fixing to jump.
COOPER:  You were going to jump off the rig?
CHOY:  Yes, I was going to climb back out and jump off.
COOPER:  Was the water on fire at all?  Did anybody actually see the water?
CHOY:  You could see it underneath the rig.  The water was on fire.
COOPER:  The water was on fire?
And what was it like, sitting there and waiting for the others to come and waiting for it to get -- to get lowered?
JACOBS:  I mean, we were just screaming to everybody, you know, get on the boat.  Get on the boat.
And I remember another explosion.  And when it exploded, the lifeboat free-fell for about three foot, and then just stopped all of a sudden. I was scared to death sitting there in that lifeboat.  I said I done made it out of my room, and out of the living quarters and here I am on a lifeboat that's supposed to help get me off this rig, and I'm going to wind up dying on this lifeboat.
And, you know, the only thing going through my mind is, you know, family back home, you know.  And I just -- I started praying.  I didn't know what else to do.
COOPER:  What did you pray for?
JACOBS:  I prayed for my family to let God know that I love my wife and that I love my kids, and that he would help me and everybody else get off this boat safely, get off the rig safely.
CHOY:  When they finally got the motor started.  And we got in.  They put us down in the water.
COOPER:  Did you look at the rig?
CHOY:  Oh, yes, we were right there.  I mean, we were probably not even a mile away from it.  And we sat there for, like, seven hours watching the rig burn.  You know, you look at it one way, if you -- you could sit there and watch it burn, and finally, I was like, I -- you know, I can't watch that.
And, so, I turned around and sat down to turn away from it.  And I looked up, and there's the giant windows on the wheelhouse of the boat.  And you see the reflection in it there.
So, it was like there was no getting away from it, but to try to close your eyes.  And every time you would close your eyes, you would see all the -- everything just replaying.  Yes, that's one image I will never forget the rest of my life is -- is from when I was on the boat watching it burn.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
COOPER:  Next: an unknown fate -- the wives of the oil workers trying to reach their husbands and they say, being kept in the dark.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ANGELA HOPKINS-JACOBS, WIFE OF BP EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  There was one moment, I thought I was fixing to have a nervous breakdown.  And I had to pull it together, because I knew I still had my son there to take care of, and I knew that I had to find out, you know, if Matt was ok or not.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
JOE JOHNS, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT:  I'm Joe Johns.
"DeepWater Disaster: Survivor Stories" continues in a moment -- first, a "360 News and Business Bulletin".
The death toll from a flash flood that swept through a packed campground in Arkansas is at least 16 with dozens believed missing and feared dead.  The governor told CNN there's no way to know exactly how many are unaccounted for.  Heavy rains caused the Little Missouri River to overflow early today as campers slept nearby.
In Peru, Joran Van Der Sloot was charged with murder and robbery in last week's slaying of 21-year-old Stephany Flores Ramirez.  The 22- year-old Dutch citizen was ordered detained until trial.  Van Der Sloot was the prime suspect in the disappearance of Natalee Holloway, an American teenager who vanished in Aruba five years ago.
After a choppy session, the Dow posted its first weekly gain in a month.  The index took deep losses after a disappointing retail sales report, but closed up 38 points.
That's the latest -- back to "DeepWater Disaster: Survivor Stories" after this short break.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
COOPER:  Tonight we're bringing you our exclusive interviews with a group of survivors from the DeepWater Horizon rig.
In our candid and emotional conversations we're learning details about what happened on that rig back on April 20th.  The full story, of course, isn't known yet.  There are going to be investigations -- long and many investigations, but we've talked to five survivors who talk about their suffering and about their suffering and their families.
The wives of three of the survivors have gripping stories to tell about the fears that they faced on that day.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
COOPER (voice-over):  It was just dawn, about 5:45, when the phone woke Angela Hopkins-Jacobs.  She didn't know that eight hours earlier 50 miles out in the Gulf, the DeepWater Horizon had exploded.  Her husband Matt worked on the rig.
A. JACOBS:  The lady said this is so and so with TransOcean, and I lost it because I knew something was wrong.  And she said that we've had to evacuate the rig, and I was hysterical.
I said "Is he OK?  Is he OK?"  And she said, "I don't know any details.  I can't tell you anything."
I had just lost it.  My son, you know, was asking, "What's wrong, what's wrong," and I said -- I couldn't, you know, speak.
COOPER:  As the platform fire raged, Matt was waiting to be lowered from the rig in a lifeboat.  The inferno, the damage so intense, he was certain he wouldn't make it out alive.
M. JACOBS:  I prayed for my family to let God know that -- you know, I love my wife and that I love my kids and that he would help me and everybody else get off the rig safely.
And the whole time, you know, it's going through my mind.  You know, I'm never going to see my family again, you know, because this is it, you know.  We're -- we're done.
COOPER (on camera):  You were sure that was it for you?
M. JACOBS:  Yes, sir.
A. JACOBS:  I had started calling hospitals down in Louisiana, Alabama, because I heard on the news that they were taking some of the injured to the hospitals there.
They had no record of him being in the hospital, so you know, at that time I'm thinking, well, he's not injured.  I don't know if he's dead.
COOPER (voice-over):  That same morning no one from the company had contacted Daniel Barron's wife, Amanda.  She hadn't heard about the catastrophe and then her brother called.
AMANDA COOPER-BARRON, WIFE OF BP EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  He just goes, "What rig does Dan work on again?"  And I said, "DeepWater Horizon, why?"  He goes, "I thought it sounded too familiar."  And I'm like, what -- you know, "Why do you need to know?  What's going on?"  And he goes, "His rig has exploded."
BARRON:  Can you imagine what our wives were going through?  She didn't get a call until 2:00 that afternoon.
And basically it was like "Hey, this is TransOcean.  We want to let you know your husband is on the boat."  And she's like, "Oh, my God, you know, what happened?" "That's all we can tell you.  We just want to let you know he's on the boat."  So she doesn't know if I'm hurt, injured, you know, burned. She doesn't know anything.
COOPER:  Doug Brown's wife Meccah did get a call in the middle of the night.
MECCAH BOYNTON-BROWN, WIFE OF BP EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  I was told he was injured.  There was really no other information that was given at the time.
I was told that he was going to be taken to a hospital but not knowing what hospital, in what state, and nobody contacting me telling me where he was going.
And so I really upset a lot of emergency rooms in the south, calling hospital after hospital after hospital for hours trying to figure out where my husband was.
D. BROWN:  I had fractured my leg, and bruised some nerves, did some damage under my kneecap and pulled some ligaments, as well as some mild brain injury.
COOPER:  That afternoon, after a desperate morning on the phone trying to find Doug, Meccah got another call from TransOcean.
M. BROWN:  I did receive a very rehearsed.  I would probably put that's my best -- very rehearsed.  "There was -- there was an incident.  We have no further information at this time.  We'll call you when we know something else."  Click. 
COOPER:  All three wives say TransOcean seemed totally unprepared, just not able to handle a crisis the size of the DeepWater Horizon.
M. BROWN:  I don't think the men and women that are out on rigs currently are really ultimately safe.  And to ask my husband to go back out there, I'd rather work five part-time jobs to make -- to make ends meet than to ask him to put his life on the line. 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
COOPER:  We sought reaction from TransOcean to our reporting, and the company sent a statement.  It reads, "TransOcean's first commitment has always been the safety and well-being of its people."
The statement goes on to say, "Immediately following the news of the tragic accident on April 20th, TransOcean family support groups were dispatched to Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama to receive rescued crew members and support their families in every way they could."
It concludes, "This continues to be the top focus of the company and the entire TransOcean family."
With the drilling behind schedule, the oil workers say the pressure on them was building.  So were the risks, they say.
Coming up: accusations of unsafe conditions on the rig.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
D. BROWN:  If they're going to cut corners and over look things, they're not being safe.  They are jeopardizing us all out there.
(END OF VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
COOPER:  On April 20th, a series of explosions rocked the DeepWater Horizon.  Flames engulfed the rig.  The explosion triggered this massive oil leak.
Tonight, five survivors are speaking out about what they heard and what they saw leading up to the disaster.  You'll learn of an argument between a BP executive and a TransOcean official, an argument two of the workers say happened that morning over how to proceed with the drilling; a significant moment possibly central to a criminal case against BP.
Here's more from our exclusive interview.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
COOPER (on camera):  And you were saying they were cutting corners. What -- what would their motivation be?
D. BROWN:  To finish the job faster, to save money.
COOPER:  And you think that's what this is about?  It was about saving time, saving money?
D. BROWN:  Well, yes.  They were over budget on it, so yes.  They were cutting corners to -- for time and money.
COOPER (voice-over):  Two of the men who survived the BP oil rig fire and collapse are trying to explain an argument they say they witnessed on the platform about 12 hours before the first explosion.
It was an argument, they say, between TransOcean and BP managers.
D. BROWN:  The meeting was a pre-tower meeting basically.  They go over the day's events, what's going to be taking place on the drill floor.  And while he was giving it, the company man basically jumped up and says no, we've got some changes.
COOPER (on camera):  The company man is from BP?
D. BROWN:  Yes.
COOPER:  The driller is TransOcean.
D. BROWN:  The driller is TransOcean, yes.
And the company man basically said we have some changes to that. We're going to be doing something different.  I recall it was something about displacing the riser with seawater for that tower.
COOPER:  Taking drilling mud out.
D. BROWN:  Yes.
COOPER:  And replacing it with seawater?
D. BROWN:  Yes.
COOPER (voice-over):  Brown and others say the argument raised concerns because replacing dense mud with seawater meant less pressure to hold the oil down.
(On camera):  Why would they want to displace it with salt water?
D. BARRON:  To make it quicker for the production well to get in once we capped the well.
COOPER:  That was the idea.  They wanted to close off the well.
D. BARRON:  They were getting ready to go to the next well and they were there trying, you know, to make it easier for the production crew to get in because it took so much time for us to drill this well and get it done.
COOPER (voice-over):  Drilling on the DeepWater Horizon was already five weeks behind schedule, according to the rig workers, and at a rough cost of $750,000 a day that delay meant the project was more than $26 million over budget.
The survivors say there was pressure to finish the drilling and begin actually pumping out the oil.
(On camera):  You're saying this was an argument between some TransOcean people and the guy from BP?
D. BROWN:  Correct.  And basically he ended up saying, well, this is how it's going to be, and they started reluctantly agreeing and -- 
COOPER:  You're saying the guy from BP won the argument basically?  He basically said this is how we're going to do it?
D. BROWN:  Yes, that's what I remember, yes.  He basically said, well, this is how it's going to be.
COOPER:  Dan, do you think that, too?  That this was about saving time, saving money for BP, for TransOcean?
D. BARRON:  Yes.  Yes.  And it just bothers me that TransOcean would let them, you know.  As much as TransOcean preaches safety, you know, it doesn't make sense that TransOcean would just fold like that if it wasn't over money.
COOPER (voice-over):  Attorney Steve Gordon represents all five survivors we interviewed.
(on camera):  You're saying that BP was negligent, yes?
STEVE GORDON, ATTORNEY SURVIVORS:  At least.
COOPER:  At least.
GORDON:  That's putting it nicely.  I would say -- 
COOPER:  How would you put it?
GORDON:  Well, I -- I've seen negligence.  I've seen gross negligence, and this conduct is criminal, what they did.
COOPER:  Criminal?
GORDON:  Yes.  There's a crime scene sitting 5,000 feet below the water.
COOPER:  What way do you think that they are criminally negligent?
GORDON:  You heard my clients say that BP came in and overrode the decision of the driller at TransOcean.  When they did that, they in essence took over on that day, and the decision that they made to displace the mud with salt water on a well that they knew had dangerous propensities I believe is criminal.
COOPER:  What do you think was more important to BP or to TransOcean -- time and money or safety?
D. BARRON:  Time and money, in all honesty.  I mean they preach safety.  It's like safety is only convenient for them when they need it.  You know, you're pressured and you're pushed to do things, and if you say, hey, you know, because everybody has the right to call time- out for safety, but you do it, you're going to get run off, you know. 
You're going to get fired, and they are not going to fire you for that, but they are going to figure out a way eventually to get rid of you.
COOPER:  And you've seen that happen?
D. BARRON:  Yes.  I have actually, yes, I have.
COOPER (voice-over):  Even before that argument on the day of the explosion the survivors we talked to said they had had other concerns.
D. BARRON:  There was always like an ominous feeling when we were on that well, you know.  And a lot of people were telling everybody else, you know, on the rig, you know, it was like chatter that, you know, we're messing with Mother Nature right now.
I mean, there was always something, you know, either a kick or we're getting stuck or we're getting large amounts of gas.
COOPER (on camera):  And what is a kick?
D. BARRON:  A kick is when we get an air bubble or a gas bubble coming up, or the mud water coming up.
COOPER:  And that's a problem?  I mean that's -- 
D. BARRON:  Yes.
COOPER:  The CEO of BP, Tony Hayward, he makes a big deal about the company's safety record and that safety is their number one priority. Do you -- do you believe that?
D. BROWN:  I believe he believes it.  And I -- 
COOPER:  You think he's wrong?
D. BROWN:  I used to believe it, but after this incident I'm not so sure I do anymore.  Not after what I've seen.  They're not being safe. They're jeopardizing us all out there.
COOPER:  Matt, do you believe that safety was their number one concern?
M. JACOBS:  All BP is worried about is -- is money.
COOPER:  When you hear BP's Tony Hayward say he wants his life back, what do you think?
D. BARRON:  I want my life back.  You know?  I'm sure you want your life back, too.
M. JACOBS:  Yes.
D. BARRON:  And I'm sure, you know, there's 11 guys out there; their wives want them back.
D. BROWN:  Yes.  We all agree with that.  He wants his life back.  We all want our lives back.
We want to be able to sleep a normal night's sleep for once.  We'd like all those families out there of the 11 who don't have their husbands, their fathers, their sons, I'm sure they would want them back -- but he wants his life back.
What about everyone else that was on that rig that night?
(END VIDEOTAPE)
COOPER:  CNN reached out to both BP and TransOcean to respond to this story.  The BP spokesman Robert Wine wouldn't comment on specific allegations but said BP's priority is always safety.
The TransOcean spokesperson said in part, "Safety is the number one priority at TransOcean, and there's no scenario or circumstance under which it will be compromised."
Regarding criminal allegations, a BP spokesperson said they will, quote, "cooperate with any inquiry the Department of Justice will undertake just as we're doing in response to the other inquiries that are already ongoing."
Coming up next: paying tribute to those who lost their lives; remembering the men who died on the DeepWater Horizon when this 360 special continues.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
COOPER:  Eleven men died on the DeepWater Horizon, the oldest was 56; the youngest was just 22.
Jason Anderson was a tool-pusher on the rig, the kind of guy his family says who didn't really like to go out fishing but went anyway just to spend time with his friends.
Donald Clark was an assistant driller, the father of four.  He's remembered as soft-spoken with an excellent work ethic.
Stephen Curtis was also an assistant driller.  He was crazy about the outdoors and even wore a chamoed (ph) tuxedo vest on his wedding day.
Gordon Jones was a drilling fluid specialist and mud engineer.  They call him a rabid LSU fan.  His second son Maxwell was born after the rig exploded.  He obviously never got to see him.
Wyatt Kemp was a derrick hand who loved hunting and fishing and remembered for his sense of humor and love of his family.
Karl Kleppinger Jr. was a floor hand on the rig.  An army vet who served in Operation Desert Storm.  He loved NASCAR and professional wrestling but cats not so much, I'm told.  He actually called the family cat Dog.
Blair Manuel was a senior drilling fluid specialist whose credo for life was the four F's -- fun, family, friends and faith.
Dewey Revette was a driller.  He's remembered for his smile and for giving everything he had to everything he did.
Shane Roshto was a floor hand and a deeply devoted family man.  On the inside of his hard hat he wrote two dates -- his wedding date and his young son's birthday -- to get him through the bad days.
Adam Weise, he was also a floor hand.  A former high school football star who's beloved in his home town.
And Dale Burkeen was a crane operator known as Bubba to those close to him.  His friends and family say he lived life large.
Tonight we honor these 11 men.  Five survivors of the explosion share the horrifying moments when they last saw their co-workers.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
COOPER (voice-over):  Some of the survivors saw a good friend of theirs die in the explosion.  His name was Dale Burkeen, a crane operator on the rig. D. BARRON:  He was in the crane on the first explosion and was trying to get out of crane.  I mean, he just -- he was running down the stairs.  He was on the -- by the handrail about to come down to the stairs and then the second explosion happened.
And it literally picked him up.  I mean, like -- like a child would throw a toy and -- and it had just picked him up and threw him, you know, over the handrail, and he ended up bouncing off of the pedestal for the crane.
He's like a father -- father figure on the rig because he was just so kind and would teach anything you needed to know and, you know, just to see him get blown up like that, I mean, it was -- it's heart wrenching.  I cannot explain it.
COOPER (on camera):  Was it the impact that -- did the explosion kill him or the fall?
D. BARRON:  Yes, I think he was dead when it exploded.
CHRIS CHOY, BP EXPLOSION SURVIVOR:  I ran to the -- my front fire station.
COOPER (voice-over):  Chris Choy heard that Dale Burkeen had been injured.  He and a fellow rig worker tried to rescue him.
CHOY:  He said I see Dale Burkeen, the crane operator.  I see Dale down.  He's -- he's down over by the starboard crane.  He said it's too hot I can't get to him.  So we put fire suits on to try to go get Dale.  And before we could get there, there was another explosion, and that jut put massive flames in between us and the -- and that side of the deck.
We couldn't get to Dale, and it -- I mean, that feeling is just indescribable, knowing that I didn't know, you know, that he had fallen or anything like that.  I just knew he was laying down on the deck right there, just knowing somebody is right there and there's nothing you can do for them.
COOPER (on camera):  You couldn't get to him because of the flames then?
CHOY:  Because of the flames.
COOPER:  What was Dale like?
D. BROWN:  Dale was like everybody's big brother.  Best friend you could have.  He would give you the shirt off his back.  Anything you needed -- needed to talk to him, needed a friend to talk to -- Dale was the man.  He looked after all his people that worked under him, and he was friends with everyone there.
COOPER (voice-over):  Ten others died that night.  Daniel Barron worked on the rig floor closest to the first explosion.  Nine men were working there that moment.  Only Daniel and one other survived. D. BARRON:  I couldn't imagine what it's like for -- for the wives who, you know, they are burying a box.  They are burying a memory. They don't know how they died.  They don't know where they were.  They don't know what they were doing.
They were basically giving up their own life, you know, to save 120 something other people, and they are all heroes.
COOPER:  Daniel is certain the men died trying to shut down the well, trying to prevent what would become a catastrophe.
D. BARRON:  There's, you know, women and children, you know, fathers, mothers, brothers that will never see those 11 men again.
D. BROWN:  And I'll never forget my fellow crew members that died.  I knew five of them quite well for years.  They are very good men, and this should not have happened to them.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
COOPER:  Remembering and honoring the victims of the DeepWater Horizon.
We'll continue to cover this disaster in the Gulf to give you the latest facts and to hold those responsible accountable.
Thanks for watching this special edition of 360.  Good night.

	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired June 11, 2010 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     KYRA PHILLIPS, CNN ANCHOR:  And I'll tell you what, it's a pretty busy Friday.  Good morning, everyone.  I'm Kyra Phillips.  Here's what we're working on right now.  
     Sex abuse in the Catholic Church.  The Holy Father begs forgiveness, promises never again.  But why is it that being Pope means never having to say I'm sorry.  
     Her sailing skills were put to the test.  Now it's her survivor skills.  A teen sailor in the middle of the ocean, alone but alive.  
     Yes, how about some Black Eyed Peas in your World Cup?  South Africa, the center of the universe right now.  We're going to show you what you're missing if you're interested in soccer begins and ends with your kids.  
     We begin with Pope Benedict XVI is begging for forgiveness. Today he told thousands of his followers gathered at the Vatican that he will never allow priests to abuse children ever again.  But is this plea for forgiveness enough?  Well, not for critics.  Here's what the Pope said.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     POP BENEDICT XVI, CATHOLIC CHURCH LEADER (Through Translator): We too insistently beg forgiveness from God and from the persons involved while promising to do everything possible to ensure that such abuse will never occur again.  
     And that in admitting men to priestly ministry and in their formation, we'll do everything we can to weigh the authenticity of their vocation.  
     (END OF VIDEO CLIP)
     PHILLIPS:  OK.  As you just heard the Pope is asking for forgiveness, but still there are two simple words we haven't heard. I'm sorry.  
     CNN's Paula Newton, live in Rome.  
     So, Paula, why can't the Pope just say, I'm sorry for this global sex scandal?  
     PAULA NEWTON, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Centuries of theology says that he can't.  A very formal mea culpa was really not going to happen here, Kyra, although that's what victims' groups said that they wanted.  
     You know, in listening to what the Pope said, victims' groups we spokes to said look, they were gratified that at least he was speaking about it openly.  And he said -- he asked for forgiveness in a way that he has done privately but not so publicly, in front of the audience of priests the way he did.  
     But, you know, I spoke with Barbara Doris of the survivor's network SNAP and she was quite critical.  I want you to listen to this, Kyra.  
     She said to me, "This was not very meaningful without the reform. The words ring hollow.  It's like, I slapped you, I say I'm sorry, and I continue to slap you."  
     Her bottom line, Kyra, not one child is any safer today because of those words.  Her point is that reform -- true reform at the Vatican has not been started.  What she wanted to hear was the Pope address -- say I'm sorry, do the mea culpa, which would have been historical, and then also tell priests, look, if you know of anyone who has abused children around the world, turn them in right now, whether it was in the past or going on right now.  
     Beyond that, they believe the Vatican has a corrupt bureaucracy. And they want that reformed.  They say the Pope is a long way from doing that -- Kyra.  
     PHILLIPS:  Corruption that has to be dealt with.  Paula Newton, thanks.  
     Sixteen years old in the middle of a brutal ocean, alone but alive.  Now the race is on to rescue Abby Sunderland.  The California girl was trying to be the youngest person to sail solo around the world.  She set off her emergency beacon in the Indian Ocean.  She's OK but there was a period where no one knew for sure.  
     As you can see, she's right there in the middle of nowhere.  It's going to take another day for a boat to even get who her.  
     CNN's Ted Rowlands has been with the family.  
     So, Ted, what do we know about Abby's situation right now?  
     TED ROWLANDS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, right now, as you said, she is fine.  Her sailboat is not fine.  The mast completely toppled in this -- in the Indian Ocean.  That is why she sent out those distressed signals.  
     The problem was -- is her family didn't know her fate.  They were on the phone with her.  She had a satellite phone yesterday morning. She called early.  She was in very difficult weather.  
     She said she was having trouble with the motor.  They were trying to help her get the motor back up.  And they lost contact with her. Well, then, about an hour later, these distressed beacons go off, two separate ones, which she enabled.  
     And of course they could only imagine the worst.  They were hoping for the best.  Immediately, a couple of boats started to go towards Abby.  But they were 40 hours away at the time.  The Australian government, though, along with Qantas Airlines, sent up an Airbus passenger jet over Abby.  
     They were able to get low enough to get visible contact with her. They saw her.  They saw that the mast was in the water and then they were able to talk to her over the radio.  They then in turn called back here to California to say that Abby is alive and well.  
     It will be another few hours -- it will be late tonight actually -- before the first boat is expected to arrive to her in the Indian Ocean.  But, as you can imagine, boy, what a sigh of relief for this family that has been on pins and needles in excess of 18 hours.  
     But one of the biggest questions people have who we have been following the story is, what is a 16-year-old girl doing out by herself in the middle of the Indian Ocean?  
     Well, she is an accomplished sailor.  However, Abby's mom did talk about the risks earlier on "AMERICAN MORNING."  Here's what she had to say.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     MARIANNE SUNDERLAND, ABBY'S MOTHER:  We know the risks that are involved.  And, you know, with technology, the choice of boat, having a meteorologist following her trip and guiding her, routing her, you minimize as many risks as you can.  
     And you know, you know there's always a possibility of some kind of accident like Abby had yesterday.   But, again, her boat is designed to remain afloat with water tight bulk heads.  
     She has all the safety equipment on board if she had to abandon ship.  So although you hate to think of them using it, you know that it's there and you know that they know how to use it and they can be rescued.  
     (END OF VIDEO CLIP)
     ROWLANDS:  And the bottom line, Kyra, is that Abby's parents are very happy to hear that she is OK.  But they are, as you might imagine, very much looking forward to talking to her and eventually holding her again when she does make it all the way back here to California.  
     PHILLIPS:  Yes, you tend to wonder where was the oversight from the very beginning?  Point well made.  
     Ted, we'll follow up on that story.  Thanks.  
     Day 53 for this oil disaster.  And Bp's high resolution video of the leak is giving a clearer image of just how much oil is awash in the sea.  Scientists now estimate that twice as much oil was gushing out than previously thought.  The new figure, up to 40,000 barrels a day before the containment cap was put in place last week.  
     This weekend, BP will begin testing a second rig-based system to catch more oil.  And right now, crews are capturing about 16,000 barrels a day.  The new system could pump that up to 28,000 barrels per day.  
     So far, BP's containment cap has collected about three million gallons of oil.  And today, a delegation of four U.S. senators will visit the heart of coastal Louisiana to assess the environmental damage.  
     BP has faced blistering accusations that it was ill-prepared for this disaster.  And some of the most damning evidence comes from BP itself.  The company's response plan talks about protecting local species like walruses and sea lions.  That's right.  They don't even live anywhere near the Gulf of Mexico.  
     And the BP blueprint said that some beaches would be protected. Those same beaches are now smeared with oil.  And the plan listed a marine expert as a go-to guy if a massive leak erupted.  He's been dead for years.  
     And it's not just BP that looks idiotic.  The federal government actually signed off on the plan.  
     And this morning, CNN's John Roberts demanded answers from a White House insider.  
     John, the plan now looks like a really bad cut-and-paste job.  Is there any defense for such an appalling foul-up?  
     JOHN ROBERTS, AMERICAN MORNING ANCHOR:  You know, when we had Carol Browner on this morning, who's the president's advisor on energy and climate change, the energy czar, as she's known, she really didn't have much of a response at all.  
     And when you look at what that disaster plan, Kyra, as you pointed out, they thought that the species they'd have to protect, according to this plan would be walruses, sea lions and sea otters.  
     I had Phillippe Cousteau on earlier today who said he spent a lot of time in the Gulf of Mexico, I've never seen a walrus.  We did manage to find one, though.  There is a walrus and sea lions at SeaWorld in Orlando, but not out in the Gulf.  
     So I asked Carol Browner this morning how did this plan every get approved.  Here's what she said.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     CAROL BROWNER, ADVISER ON ENERGY & CLIMATE CHANGE:  It's a deeply disturbing story that you referenced.  I've read the same story.  We have a commission that's going to be looking at all of those issues. Obviously, these disaster plans need to be updated.  They need to be managed properly.  A deep, deeply disturbing.  We share your concern.  
     ROBERTS:  Right.  So what are you going to do about it in the future?  
     BROWNER:  Well, the commission will be looking this -- independent commission will be looking at all of these issues and determining what we need to have in place to ensure that something like this doesn't happen again and in the worst, worst case scenario, if something were to happen, that the plans were up to date, that the plans have all things in them that would be necessary to ensure the rapid response.  
     (END OF VIDEO CLIP)
     PHILLIPS:  You know, deeply disturbing to say the least. Something else that's deeply disturbing -- and by the way it doesn't sound like you really got an answer with regard to that horribly put together disaster plan that was rubber stamped by the government.  I guess we'll just have to wait and see what happens with regard to that -- investigation.  
     But, John, also deeply disturbing what's happening to these fishermen, and even oil workers on these other rigs, because of this moratorium that the government has put out.  
     Any -- did you get any kind of determination or timeline from her about that and how that is impacting the economy?  
     ROBERTS:  Well, as you know, Kyra, not too long after the disaster with the Deepwater Horizon, the Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, apparently against the recommendation of some scientists who were consulted on this, put in place a six-month moratorium on deep water drilling.  
     The president says that will stay in place pending an investigation into the safety of all of these rigs.  Carol Browner did tell me that well, maybe the investigation could be done prior to six months.  But they're just getting an earful from Louisiana officials, including Governor Bobby Jindal who says the White House just doesn't get it.  
     You've got an economic disaster with tourism.  You've got the other economic disaster of the fishing grounds being closed down.  And now you have potentially 100,000 people who work in the oil and gas industry who could be furloughed because of this moratorium.  
     I asked her what was the purpose of this moratorium and isn't it just not adding injury to insult?  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     BROWNER:  We don't understand what caused this accident.  It may have been human failure.  It may have been technical failure.  It may have been both things.  And so what we need to do for the American people is get those answers so that we can ensure that drilling does go forward.       But it goes forward with all of the safeguards that the experts tell us will ensure that this doesn't happen again.  And as soon as we have those answers, clearly we want to make sure these people get back to work.  
     We do understand the economic impact of it.  But we also understand there is a very, very large economic impact of an accident. 
     (END OF VIDEO CLIP)
     ROBERTS:  Now it's true.  There's an enormous economic impact from the accident.  It's also true, though, that all of these rigs were checked out by the government after the disaster on the Deepwater Horizon.  They all checked out OK.  
     So people here along the Gulf Coast -- it's difficult sometimes to understand this from an outside perspective that everything is so intertwined here with fishing and tourism and oil and gas.  People here along the Gulf Coast are saying you just -- you're strangling us economically from three different perspectives here.  At least leave one thing open -- Kyra.  
     PHILLIPS:  John Roberts from New Orleans.  John, great job. Thanks so much.  
     And it's not even summer yet and already an oppressive heat is making cleanup efforts even more miserable.  We want to make a closer look at those challenges as those temps continue to climb.  
     Meteorologist Bonnie Schneider here with a closer look.  
     And, Bonnie, you probably heard Admiral Thad Allen say yesterday with the heat and then the fumes from this oil --  
     BONNIE SCHNEIDER, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Yes.  
     PHILLIPS:  -- rising?  I mean this is -- this is a tremendous health concern for workers all throughout the Gulf.  
     SCHNEIDER:  That's right, Kyra.  And a lot of them are in protective gear which only makes it more hot out there to bear.  
     The problem with the heat is it's not going anywhere.  We are looking at heat advisories straight through Sunday night, 7:00 p.m. Sunday.  And it's not just Louisiana.  Coastal Mississippi where a lot of people are also on the beaches during their protective work.  In Biloxi, Waveland, we are looking at hot temperatures.  The numbers will take us all the way up to 95 for the temperature.  
     The problem is the heat index, the way your body interprets the temperature, well, in New Orleans specifically, it will feel today -- just like yesterday -- like it's up to 110 degrees.  And there's a reason for that.  
     In New Orleans or any other city, where you tend to have the heat building along the concreted asphalt, it absorbs the radiation, heating the city hotter than the grassy areas surrounding the city. In the grassy areas the heat is released and we tend to get cooler temperatures particularly at night.  
     So the problem is, Kyra, we're looking at this heat day and night.  And it is not going to subside for days.  Again high temperatures in the low 90s.  The heat index, 105 to 110.  
     PHILLIPS:  Bonnie, thanks.  
     SCHNEIDER:  Sure.  
     PHILLIPS:  Well, you may be thinking about going to Arlington National Cemetery to honor a service member -- a loved one.  We're going to tell you why that visit could take you a very long time and even worse, disappoint you.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     PHILLIPS:  Well, you may remember Amanda Knox.  She is the American exchange student sentenced to 26 years in prison in Italy for killing her British roommate.  Well, her Italian boyfriend was also convicted and jailed.  
     Meredith Kercher was found dead November, 2007 in the apartment that she shared with Knox.  But there's word today that there may be new hope for that former college student accused.  
     Apparently, a British newspaper is reporting that Amanda Knox was convicted on claims from a former mafia gangster.  He says his brother killed Kerchner (sic) during a bungled robbery.  
     Knox was in court today reportedly to try and appeal her conviction based on that gangster's revelation.  
     First a confession to murder now Joran Van Der Sloot is revealing details about another case.  Police in Peru say Van Der Sloot told investigators he knows the location of Natalee Holloway's body and will finally explain everything to Aruban authorities.  
     Well, he was arrested twice after the Alabama teen vanished five years ago.  Van Der Sloot also confessed to the killing of 21-year-old Stephany Flores in Lima, Peru.  Police say Flores had seen an e-mail on Van Der Sloot's computer connected with the Holloway case and then he attacked her.  
     Van Der Sloot's lawyer told CNN that he plans to ask the judge to throw out his confession because he was not properly represented back when he was interrogated.  
     Four million of you go to honor our veterans at the nation's most sacred burial ground every year.  And it shouldn't be such an emotional trial.  But it is.  
     If you're getting ready to go find your hero, not only could it take you a very long time but when you get there, you may be very disappointed.  You are basically going back to the Dewey Decimal era. Names of the fallen are not even computerized.  You'll have to sift through thousands of cards to try and find your special service member.  
     Now if that's not enough outrage, listen to this.  We've now discovered that cremated remains have been buried in the wrong gravesites and urns have been found just tossed into a pile.  
     CNN's Barbara Starr joins us from the Pentagon.  
     Barbara, it's heart-wrenching to learn about this.  How could this even happen?  
     BARBARA STARR, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT:  You know, Kyra, it's really hard to know where to begin.  This has been a seven-month investigation by the Army which oversees Arlington National Cemetery.  
     As you say, some of the most hallowed ground in this country for those who have fallen.  They have found unmarked graves.  They have found mismarked graves.  They have found out-of-date records.  Just about every heart-breaking thing you can think of.  
     Listen to what the Army secretary had to say about this late yesterday.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     JOHN MCHUGH, SECRETARY OF THE ARMY:  As to the negative findings of the report, there is simply no excuse.  And on behalf of the United States Army, on behalf of myself, I deeply apologize to the families of the honored fallen resting in that hallowed ground who may now question the care afforded to their loved ones.  
     (END OF VIDEO CLIP)
     STARR:  Now there are over 300,000 fallen buried in Arlington. We are talking about 200 graves or so in question.  
     But listen to this, Kyra.  No one is getting fired over this disaster.  The number-one man, the superintendent, John Metzler, he will be staying on in a reduced role.  He got a letter of reprimand. The number-two guy, he basically has been put on administrative leave pending further action.  
     And what are we talking about with these 200 graves?  Well, cemetery maps where maybe or maybe not they show a grave, headstones where maybe or maybe not there is an actual grave there.  All of this now being looked at.  
     The Army says it may never be able to resolve all of these cases. What they do want the families of those fallen in Iraq and Afghanistan to know is right now there is no evidence that any of those recent graves from those wars in Iraq or Afghanistan are affected by this.  
     Right now, the belief is that all of the graves under review are those who have fallen in previous wars -- Kyra.       PHILLIPS:  Now, Barbara, and I don't know if we know the answer to this, but you know, has the cemetery gotten the money to upgrade the system to computerize all these names and locations and to clear this up?  Because this is -- this just sounds ridiculous that we'd be at this point in 2010.  
     STARR:  Yes, doesn't it, though.  They have been working on a computer system for some years, we are told.  There is some effort to move towards all of that.  The cemetery -- this is no excuse.  This is no explanation but let me just give a little context.  
     To some of our viewers who may not have personally visited Arlington, it's over 150 years old.  It covers many acres.  It dates back to the Civil War.  As you go back through the cemetery into some of the back areas, these are very old graves when records were not clearly kept and so what they have found is they've gone through some of these areas.  
     The maps, the headstones, all the information just doesn't match up from so many decades.  Hundreds of years ago.  So now they're having to go back.  They believe that most of these recent graves are -- the records kept on almost all of them -- are in good shape but they're going through everything now, Kyra, trying to figure out exactly what they are dealing with.  
     PHILLIPS:  Got it, Barbara Starr.  Thanks.  
     The party has already started in South Africa.  Take a listen.  
     (MUSIC)
     Black Eyed Peas already getting things pumped up for the World Cup.  We're going to check out what else is in store leading up to the main event.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     PHILLIPS:  Checking top stories.  Fifty-three days into the Gulf oil disaster.  This weekend BP tests a second rig-based system to catch more oil.  Scientists now believe twice as much oil was gushing out than was thought before.  
     Pope Benedict XVI, today he asked for forgiveness and promised he will never allow priests to abuse children again.  
     Rescuers on their way to 16-year-old Abby Sunderland.  She was trying to be the youngest person to sail around the world but rough seas knocked out her boat's mast and left her adrift in the Indian Ocean.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     PHILLIPS:  I hear the whistling coming from the control room all the way back into the weather block.  Shakira is shaking things up last night at the World Cup concert in South Africa.  She was just one of many performers getting people pumped up.       While these celebrations underway right now in Johannesburg, 94,000 people expected to be watching.  Thirty-two teams will compete for the ultimate prize for the first time on African soil.  
     Sadly, one person who won't be there, former South African president, Nelson Mandela.  His great-granddaughter was tragically killed in a car accident leaving last night's kick off concert.  
     Zenani Mandela had just turned 13 on Wednesday.  Police say the driver of the car that she was in was drunk.  
     Nelson Mandela was not in the car.  He says that he's devastated. And of course, it wouldn't be appropriate to attend opening celebrations.  
     World Cup opening ceremonies are underway right now.  And the hype is building as you can see from right there at the beginning with Shakira in the opening concert.  It's all happening at Soccer City Stadium in Johannesburg.  
     And CNN's Robyn Curnow joins us from Soweto to get a feel for what the mood is like now -- Robyn.  
     ROBYN CURNOW, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Hi there, Kyra.  Well, as you can hear, the party has started here in South Africa already.  There is a whole lot of local musicians that have been playing here.  And that hum, that buzzing you might be able to hear over my shoulder is the sound of a vuvuzela.  
     Now that is an African horn.  It looks like this.  We've got our own CNN brand vuvuzela and this is what it sounds like.  Hold on.  
     Ninety thousand of those are going to be played and absolutely going crazy inside one of the soccer stadiums today.  It's around the corner from me here in Soweto.  And the kick off will be in 30 minutes.  And I'm sure in that stadium, the -- the mood is absolutely as excited as this.  South Africans flag waving their flags.  And it's just a wonderful, wonderful experience.  
     PHILLIPS:  Robyn, and I know Robyn is having a hard time hearing us.  I'd love to ask her a couple of questions but she's right there in the middle of it all.  We'll be following the World Cup with Robyn Curnow of course.  And we have some special guests coming up in the later hour, too.  
     Atlanta, Georgia's female soccer team going to be here to show us some moves.  
     All right, let's talk debt and the Gross Domestic Product, shall we?  I know.  Don't glaze over just yet.  Why our ballooning deficit is creating problems for getting you a job.  That's how we're going to talk about this.  You're going to want to listen.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     PHILLIPS:  Opening bell just about to ring on Wall Street.  We saw a huge gain yesterday.  The Dow surged more than 270 points, but today, stocks will definitely be under pressure because of a weak retail report.  Sales fell 1.2 percent last month.  That doesn't sound huge, but it's the biggest drop in eight months.  It's a problem, because consumer spending is what really drives the recovery, as you know.  And investors, well, they're very concerned about the economy, especially after last week's jobs report.
     Right now, Dow Industrials, it looks like down 83 points.  So, we're tracking the numbers.  Opening of bell just about to ring. Also, next hour, at the White House, President Obama is going to meet with small business owners in the Oval Office.  The president is highlighting his proposals to help small businesses grow and hire more workers.
     A Mexican family has laid to rest their 15-year-old son.  The U.S. border agent shot and killed him last week or this week, rather. And the teen's family says there's no excuse, but American officials say he had a past that wasn't exactly innocent.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     PHILLIPS:  We don't have to tell you the recent fluctuations in our market combined with Europe's debt crisis mean that we're in uncertain economic times.  Our country's debt is growing at a dramatic rate, now, topping more than $13 trillion.  This chart shows our debt in red.  And to the nation's Gross Domestic Product in green.  You can see that the debt is more than 3.5 times our GDP, which has some economists saying we could be primed for what's called a double dip recession.
     Jeff Rosensweg is a finance professor at Emery University, and maybe we should start with the double dip recession and explain what that means.  It  sounds like I should panic.   
     PROF. JEFF ROSENSWEG, FINANCE, EMORY UNIVERSITY:  Sounds like you should go to the ice-cream store.   
     PHILLIPS:  Yes, that would be a lot easier.   
     ROSENSWEG:  That wouldn't cost as much.  We were cruising along with a lot of nice growth, and then, we fell down into a recession, meaning the economy went down and receded down to be 2008, the first half of 2009.  But then we've been growing for almost the last year. People really don't feel it.  So, a lot of pain in the job market, but we've been growing.
     But now, as we see all this trouble in Europe, et cetera, we see the stock market reflecting some of that panic, there's a lot of fear we might go down again.  So, it's a little bit like a "W."  We went down, we're coming up, and will we go down into a double dip, another recession, another falling down the beach (ph). 
     PHILLIPS:  So, what does that mean for us?  OK.  You've explained the double dip.  We're talking $13 trillion.  I mean, that is just -- that number is unimaginable.  What does that mean to you, to me, to everybody in the studio?      ROSENSWEG:  Yes.  Everyone is worried about it because it's such a big number.  And it means that take yourself, take myself, it's over $42,000 of government debt, just federal government debt per person in the U.S.  So, let's say someone there has a family of four.  It's $170,000 of debt per family of four.  
     PHILLIPS:  This is the same type of problem that we saw in Greece.  
     ROSENSWEG:  Yes.  
     PHILLIPS:  We saw those protests.
     ROSENSWEG:  That's right.
     PHILLIPS:  We saw people getting violent.  We saw the thousands and thousands of people fill the streets.  I mean, you remember these pictures.  We followed this for days.  You know, are we headed down this road?
     ROSENSWEG:  We could be headed down that road.  The thing is we're not there yet.  The difference with the U.S. is we have, by far, the world's biggest economy.  So, yes, we do have the biggest debt, $13 trillion.  But, as a ratio of our income, you know, our GDP, our total production, our debt is less than to Greece or Italy, not that those are countries I like to compare to, but, in other words, if we can get a handle on our problem even over the next three, four years, we will be okay.  It's really your debt compared to your income that makes the difference.  We're in a great economy.  
     PHILLIPS:  So, give me an analogy that put that in perspective for you.  
     ROSENSWEG:  Yes.  Let's say you have a mortgage that's $100,000, that's your debt, but let's say your income is $50,000.  You're OK. But let's say in this bad economy, they cut you to halftime and you only get half that salary, all of a sudden, that debt, you can't handle it.  So, it's really your debt compared to that income.  So, what we need to do is grow our incomes.  We already got the $13 trillion debt.  It's there.  The mortgage is there, for instance (ph). We got to do everything we can as a nation to grow the income.   
     PHILLIPS:  What else can we do? 
     ROSENSWEG:  We really have no choice.  You know, people say, Kyra, why don't we pay off the debt.  We're not going to pay off $13 trillion.  We can't go to families and say, give us $170,000 extra tax.  We don't have it.  We don't have it on our savings accounts.
     PHILLIPS:  Our taxes are already going up.
     ROSENSWEG:  Exactly.
     PHILLIPS:  And we're paying for two wars.  We're paying for corruption on Wall Street.  I mean, now, we got an oil disaster that we're paying for.  I mean, how can we even think about paying down a debt? 
     ROSENSWEG:  No, we really can't.  What we need to do is grow the other half of equation, grow incomes, create jobs.  You know, we have 15 million people unemployed, but we have 25 million people that are either unemployed or underemployed.  People, like I said, that are part time and need a full-time job.  People gave out looking for jobs, 25 million.  So, you know, some people say, we got to get rid of this deficit.  We got to raise taxes.
     That's the last thing we should do.  If anything, we need to subsidize and cut taxes in order to create incentives for green energy, for insulating people's home so we wouldn't be dependent so much on foreign oil which often comes in from our enemies, on offshore drilling.  We need to do anything we can to create jobs.  Now, I've been complaining for 20 years about the government deficits and the debt, but right now, I want to say, it is jobs, jobs, jobs.  
     Twenty-five million people are out there.  I know that as a professor.  People are hurting.  If we can create income, we can handle the debt.  We don't need to pay off the debt.  We just have to get it under control over even a three or four-year horizon.  But right now, we have 25 million people that are hurting.  And if they're not working, they're not paying tax, and we're going to remain having a huge deficit.   
     PHILLIPS:  You mentioned offshore drilling.  That's very controversial right now.  That's going to be something we're going to be talking a lot about.  
     ROSENSWEG:  We will talk about that another day, Kyra.  
     PHILLIPS:  That's a whole another segment.  Thank you so much. Appreciate your time.  All right.
     Fallouts from this week's election primaries, the allegations are so serious that Democratic leaders are asking one South Carolina winner to drop out.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     PHILLIPS:  Earlier this week, several key states held primaries. But one South Carolina race is gaining all the attention right now. It's raising allegations that a winning candidate was planted by Republicans.
     We're talking about Alvin Greene, the political novice ran no ads on TV or radio yet he stunned Democrats by winning the party's nomination for the U.S. Senate.  Now, Democrats are asking him to withdraw.  He says, no way.  And that's about it.
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  What was your campaign like?  Did you have a lot of campaign meetings?
     ALVIN GREENE (D), SOUTH CAROLINA SENATE:  I had quite -- I had just a few meetings, not many.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Did you have campaign rallies?
     GREENE:  Nothing formal, just informal rallies -- just informal meetings, rather.
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     PHILLIPS:  I know CNN's chief political correspondent, Candy Crowley has some thoughts on this.  First of all, Candy, who is this guy?
     CANDY CROWLEY, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, listen, according to those who have looked into his background -- Washington Post and others -- he is, indeed, a veteran.  He did leave sooner than his time was up under circumstances no one quite knows, apparently, the military doesn't tell you.  He is a little fuzzy on it.
     Nonetheless, he won some medals while he was in the service.  He graduated from college in the early 2000s.  So -- but we also know he's unemployed and what sparked some of this controversy is, not only is he a political novice.  But you've got to come up with $10,000 for the filing fee and he's unemployed.  And he has like $100 plus in his campaign chest.  So where did the $10,000 come from.
     And I think that's what has led to some of those suspecting that Republicans are somehow behind this and planted a candidate in there.
     PHILLIPS:  So let's expand on that a little bit.  What do you think?  I mean, could this be a GOP setup?  I know, we kind of have to laugh because I've never known -- 
     CROWLEY:  Yes, I've never known a -- the party, either Democratic or Republican, to be all that organized to be able to pull off something like this.  I don't discount that someone might have said, hey, I've got an idea why don't we pay the filing fee and see if we can get this guy to win.
     But I just -- it doesn't seem -- it takes a little too much pre- thought I think for one of the parties to have kind of set this up.
     And the other thing is, in order -- remember that there were -- we looked it up, over two million registered voters in 2008 in South Carolina.  This gentleman -- Mr. Greene, got a little over 100,000 for his win.  So that's not -- it didn't take a huge number of voters to give him this win.
     And in order for Republicans to have done this and planted him there and voted for him, you would have to go in and say I want the Democratic ballot, which you can do in South Carolina.  You can ask for either ballot.  It's open primary.
     But they had a very hot governor's race going on, on the Republican side.  So it just -- it doesn't -- something is funky here. But I'm not sure I think the Republicans were up to this kind of shenanigan --      PHILLIPS:  OK, then explore this funk with me.  OK, what could be the other explanations to how he won?  Give me a funk 101, Candy, would you please?
     CROWLEY:  Oh yes, I mean, I think -- here are some explanations down there.  He's -- Greene's name was the one on top.  And you know -- 
     PHILLIPS:  OK.
     CROWLEY:  Sometimes people go into these elections and they have a name that they want to vote for -- for governor, but they haven't really paid that much attention to the senate race and they go, yes this guy.
     PHILLIPS:  Yes, oh, that's easy.  First name on the list -- boom, check it.
     (CROSSTALK)
     CROWLEY:  Yes, first name on the list -- boom.  Second -- second idea maybe that in fact maybe there was this sort of boom among people say wouldn't this be cool?  Let's try and elect this guy and there was some sort of a secret kind of e-mail thing going on out there.
     But, you know, I'm at a loss, but it's -- remember, this is the year of an anti-incumbent.  If you want an anti-incumbent, this guy is it.
     So -- 
     PHILLIPS:  You know what, Candy?  It's like South -- South Carolina is like the gift that keeps on giving.
     CROWLEY:  It really is.  It really is, they had a great governor's race, they had the whole Mark Sanford-Argentinean mistress thing going on.  So this last year and last year have been good for us.  I don't think South Carolinians are that thrilled by all of this, but nonetheless, they are -- they are fun to watch politically.
     PHILLIPS:  So I'll tell you what I would like to watch is you interviewing Alvin Greene this Sunday on "STATE OF THE UNION".
     CROWLEY:  I'll see what I can do.
     PHILLIPS:  Candy Crowley.
     CROWLEY:  In the meantime, we'll have Alabama Governor Riley to talk about the oil leak.
     PHILLIPS:  All right, well, that - that'll suffice for now.
     And I know it'll be good.
     CROWLEY:  OK.
     PHILLIPS:  Candy Crowley thanks so much.  We'll see you Sunday.
     CROWLEY:  Thanks, Kyra.
     PHILLIPS:  Well, think about it, we live in a stressed-out world right now: wars, terrorism, unemployment, debt, foreclosures and epic oil disaster.  Good deeds mean so much more in times like this.  When was the last time that you stopped and did something nice for someone without expecting anything in return?
     OK.  Keep all of that in mind as you watch this story from Crystal Garrett of CTV in Canada and then let's talk.
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     CRYSTAL GARRETT, CTV CANADA (voice-over):  Heidi Heise says life has been turned upside down since she was displaced from her Dartmouth apartment building last week.  She says her unit was not damaged by the fire so she gave it up for another tenant in need, but her generous nature may have cost her, her job at a nearby sandwich shop.
     HEIDI HEISE, FORMER RESTAURANT WORKER:  Because their host, their apartment that they were living in went up in flames and they had no money, no food, no nothing.  And I let them stay at my place and they come to thank me and I gave them a sub.  I felt sorry for them I tried to help them up.
     GARRETT:  Heise says when she reported for work at this Subway restaurant she got some unexpected bad news.
     HEISE:  They just said before you start work we would like to let you know that we're letting you go.  And I said well, for what reason and they were like went over the cameras and she knew on the weekend I gave a free sub.
     GARRETT:  Heise says she gave away two 6-inch subs which is the equivalent of one free foot long sub she says every employee is entitled to per shift, but it must be recorded as a staff lunch.
     HEISE:  Because of all of the stuff that was going on -- it totally slipped my mind to even write it down, and yes I just forgot to write it down and they fired me for it.
     GARRETT:  Todd White was one of two people who received a free sandwich.  He says he feels terrible that Heise lost her job.
     TODD WHITE, LOST APARTMENT IN FIRE:  No, she doesn't deserve it. We just went to thank her for letting us to stay at her place.
     GARRETT:  And she just offered a sandwich.
     WHITE:  She just offered a sandwich to us because we never had nothing to eat.
     GARRETT (on camera):  We made several attempts to get a hold of the Subway management today to get their side of the story, but no one had yet returned our calls.     HEISE:  I worked double shifts when they ask me to.  I did everything that they wanted me to and I guess this is the thanks that I get for helping them out.
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     PHILLIPS:  Well, Subway Corporate tells CNN the decision to fire Heidi was up to the franchise owner.  I sure hope that franchise owner will change his or her mind.  And you know what -- even though this story bears out the cliche that no good deed goes unpunished, don't let it discourage you from practicing the gold rule and paying it forward.
     Please, stop for a moment, look around.  What can you do to make someone's life just a little bit better today, tomorrow, this weekend?
     Go to my blog, CNN.com/Kyra.  Tell me about something nice that a stranger did for you.  Do you have a story that you can share with me because I would love to hear it.
     We have a lot going on in the CNN NEWSROOM this morning.  Let's start with Ed Lavandera.  He's live in New Orleans -- Ed.
     ED LAVANDERA, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Hey, Kyra and coming up in a little bit we'll be talking about the new estimates on the flow rate coming from that oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  Just when you think it couldn't get any worse it keeps getting worse.  Kyra, we'll be back.
     BONNIE SCHNEIDER, AMS METEOROLOGIST:  I'm meteorologist Bonnie Schneider.  We are tracking extreme heat in Louisiana and in Mississippi.  Plus what beaches are open along the Gulf Coast?  I'll tell you coming up.  
     PHILLIPS:  Thanks, guys.  And still ahead, a look at the devastating toll the Gulf Coast oil spill is having on fishermen and just how long it will last.  In the next hour, hear from the man who supervised the Exxon Valdez spill for the U.S. Navy and now works as a fishing industry consultant.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     PHILLIPS:  Oh, yes.  You're living on the edge, all right, if you go to the World Cup: the fans, the excitement, the competition; millions of people all around the world anxiously waiting for today's kickoff of the World Cup in South Africa.  Our Zain Verjee is in London.  So, Zain, tell me what it's like where you are.  I know you're having fun.  Go ahead, Zain.  
     ZAIN VERJEE, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Hi, Kyra.  For the next month when I say football, this is what I mean, OK?  One billion people around the world will be following what is known as the beautiful game, and boy, are we having fun here.
     Some of them are out there excited that moments away on the big screen they are going to be able to watch the kickoff match in South Africa between Mexico and Bafana-Bafana that's the name of the local team.  Everyone is so excited.
     All month people are going to be in pubs, try and skip work, watch at work, be at home.  It's a huge event.  They're going to follow players carefully, follow each and every move.  My team, Bafana-Bafana today Kyra -- and they'll teach you a little bit of Zulu for the day, (INAUDIBLE) bafana which means "Go, boys" -- Kyra.  
     PHILLIPS:  Now, Zain, I know we're having trouble connecting. Can you hear me OK?  
     No, she can't -- OK, we lost her, but I'll bet you can hear these gals in the background here.  Come on, girls show me some moves, pick up those balls.  There we go.  Give me some action.  Michelle, Megan, Kyra -- here we go.  We have the Atlanta Silverbacks here in-house. We're going to talk a little World Cup predictions, show us some moves, tell us what those boys need to be doing starting today and through the weekend and the next month.

	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired June 11, 2010 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>KYRA PHILLIPS, CNN ANCHOR:    OK.  It's the top of the hour.  Let's check our top stories.
     Pope Benedict XVI, begging for forgiveness.  Today he told thousands of his followers gathered at the Vatican that he will never allow priests to abuse children again.  But is this plea for forgiveness enough?  Not for the critics.  They want a full apology from the leader of the Catholic church.
     First a confession to murder, now Joran van der Sloot revealing more details about the Natalee Holloway case.  Police in Peru said Van der Sloot told investigators he knows the location of Holloway's body and will finally explain everything he knows to the Aruban authorities.  Police say Van der Sloot has  confessed to killing a 21- year-old woman in Peru.
     And U.S. officials talking more about that fatal shooting earlier this week at the El Paso-Juarez border.  A U.S. agent shot and killed a 15-year-old boy on the Mexican side.  Border agents say the teen was involved in human smuggling and was on a list of repeat juvenile offenders.  The family said he wasn't armed  and he didn't pose any type of threat.
     It's day 53 of the gulf oil disaster and we're waiting for the latest updates from the federal government.  Admiral Thad Allen about to hold his news briefing.  As you can see, we're there just waiting for it to begin.  As soon as he steps up to the mike we'll take it live this hour.  BP's high-resolution video of the underwater geyser is giving a clearer image of just how much oil is awash in the sea and the new numbers are staggering.
     CNN's Ed Lavandera brings us more from New Orleans.
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     ED LAVANDERA, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Once again, the grim reality of this oil disaster keeps getting worse, the flow rate team of independent scientists has  doubled its estimate of how much oil is gushing into the Gulf of  Mexico.  It could be as much as 40,000 barrels a day.  The new numbers have triggered another round of backlash toward BP.
     REP. ED MARKEY (D), MASSACHUSSETTS:  I think it's quite clear that BP has known that this is much more catastrophic right from the beginning.  They have been hiding it from the American people, and from the federal government, and now we know the full dimension of what is unfolding in the gulf.
     LAVANDERA:  BP said in a statement that it fully supported this effort, providing scientific data and high-resolution video, but one of the scientists says this latest estimate was reached before it had full access to the enhanced video and the latest  estimate also doesn't take into account the increased flow after BP cut the riser from the blowout preventer a week ago or the amount of oil BP is capturing with the containment cap.  Still, expect the numbers to go up more.
     DR. IRA LEIFER, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SANTA BARBARA (ON THE PHONE):  There probably will be some slight revisions to this estimate which is, for the past  in the next few days, as it's finalized.
     LAVANDERA:  Congressman Ed Markey says the only way to get an accurate flow rate is to let the scientists inject a fluorescent dye into the well.  He has asked BP to give scientists the access.  BP hasn't responded.
     MARKEY:  My intent is to ensure that independent scientists can measure the accurate flow of oil into the gulf.  BP can do it voluntarily or they can do it involuntarily.
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     LAVANDERA:  And Kyra, what he's talking about there in the next couple of weeks or so that containment cap that is currently over the blowout preventer in the Gulf of Mexico will be changed out for another one, perhaps a more improved one that they hope will capture more oil.
     So there will be a time there where that blowout preventer will not have anything over it.  It's at that time that Representative Markey wants to have the scientists come in and do those fluorescent dye testing that they say will help give them the information they need.
     But right now, it's clear, Kyra, the more time has passed that the amount of information that we're getting about what's going on down there is much slower that that gusher is coming out of the Gulf of Mexico.  Kyra?
     PHILLIPS:   Ed, thanks.  Let's go straight to the president's point man leading the response to this disaster.  Admiral Thad Allen live.
     ADM. THAD ALLEN, NATIONAL INCIDENT COMMANDER:  ... and more than 2,000 vessels of  opportunity utilizing local watermen in their knowledge and their vessels, 64 aircraft and 2.7 billion feet of boom either deployed or staged and ready to  deploy.
     We're also removing as much oil as we can from the surface around the well site, as you know and then further out as we get toward shore and significantly  increased our skimming capability.  We have skim to date about 18 million gallons of oily water.  The oil has to be decanted from that.  Our yield is usually somewhere between 10 and 15 percent on that.  We have burned 3.8 million gallons of oil.
     We have applied over one million gallons of dispersant.  We are starting to limit the dispersants on the surface to where we need it for safety reasons for putting down volatile organic compounds when we have a spill of such  magnitude, where dispersants have a direct effect and trying to limit out dispersant application to the subsea injections and over four million gallons have been recovered either through the riser insertion tube or our containment cap so far.
     We continue to try and mobilize resources.  I've empanelled a strategic resource team to take a look at our assets all around the country.  They've been working on this for several weeks.  Just to give you an idea of what's in the national inventory and we're going to have meetings later on today and through the weekend about how we might want to redeploy assets and how that might happen in the country.
     Nationally, there are a little over 2,000 skimmers or skimming- type vehicles that are potentially available for use.  Probably a little over 430,000 feet of ocean boom, that's a heavy duty boom and probably 3.1 million feet of near coastal boom listed in the oil spot response organizations required to be on an index that the Coast Guard maintains.
     What we're going to be doing over the next couple of days is doing a risk analysis of what we can bring to the area and also the international assets that we are seeking and try and come up the way to mask our forces more effectively especially in the area between the shoreline out to about 50 miles.  As the oil gets there, it just aggregates into smaller flows and we're trying to figure out how to attack that with more scheming capacity and capability moving forward.
     As you know, we've got part of the work done out of the flow rate technical group.  Work continues and we're going to be aggregating that and plus making adjustments for the - whatever increase there might have been after they cut in the riser pipe.  We also are looking to put pressure gauges down on the blowout preventer and see if we can come up with an actual empirical way to take data from the pressure readings and corroborate what might have happened in the  difference between the flow before and after the riser cut.
     That will all continue, and as I said, immense operations going on down there and we're also deploying teams today and will be next week under Tracy Waring  (ph), our integrated services team to take a look at the claims processing and that continues with our oversight work with BP.  With that, I'll be glad to take questions.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Admiral, thank you for taking my question. In your briefing on Monday, you (inaudible) by saying that the Discovery Enterprise and the Q-4000, which is en route right now will have a combined production capability, capacity of 20,000 barrels per day.  Now your scientists are estimating that the flow of oil is between 25,000 and 30,000 barrels per day and maybe 40,000 barrels today.  Isn't it true that today, 50 days after this leak was discovered, if you have a perfect seal, if we were getting everything through that riser that you could, you still don't have the capacity topside to deal with this?
     ALLEN: Well, first of all, I think we're still dealing with the flow estimate.  And we're trying to refine those numbers.  One portion of the work, as we just indicated came up with a higher flow rate.  As it stands right now the actual production capability and optimum for the Discovery Enterprise and the Q-4000 if  they're operating at maximum efficiency is 18,000 and 10,000, respectively.  So that's 28,000.
     We have directed BP to provide us a plan to increase capacity and also increase redundancy.  We've got that plan as I told you, we're completing a review of that today and later on today we will put out a statement regarding our review of the plan and the way to move forward, but we have told BP that we need not only increased capacity as we're able to bring the flow rate up but also redundancy.
     We hope to - by the time we get to the new system put in and I talked to you about the floating riser pipe and the new production tankers, we should be in the range of somewhere between 40,000 to 50,000 barrels a day with that system once it's in place.  The issue is for BP to move quickly to establish capacity and redundancy so as we're able to increase the flow, they got the capacity to produce it.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  But if you have had these numbers earlier perhaps, wouldn't it make sense to have the capacity now?
     ALLEN:  Well, we brought the capacity at the scene that was available.  Actually, the tankers that have the dynamic positioning system that we'll use with the floating production platform that we talked about or are actually being brought from the north sea.  Well, because of the way they produce oil in the  gulf and a lot of it is piped in we don't use the same type of shuttle tankers that they do in the north sea that will be required to handle this production.  That treatment is (inaudible) to other parts of the world.  I say we, collectively it's the industry and everybody.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Admiral, I'm curious (inaudible) about the cameras.
     ALLEN:  Yes.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Are you using - are you open to using open vessels (inaudible) ad what environment or criteria (inaudible)?
     ALLEN:  That's exactly what we're doing.  We call these vessels of opportunity.  When you look at skimmers, some skimmers are what I call self-contained.  It's actually a vessel that has skimming capability but other systems are booming systems that you tow behind any vessel, it used to have a way to evacuate it and what we're trying to do is get their skimming equipment in the hands of the vessels of opportunity out there.  As you know, we have over 2,000 operating and we have a collection barge or a vessel nearby that can basically vacuum the oil out and they can continue working.  That's exactly what they want to do.
     So it depends on the type of boat, the capability to tow the equipment they need.  There's training in the operator on how to deploy the boom.  There's also some safety training related on how you work around that type of oil but that is exactly what we're about.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  In terms of (inaudible).  Do you still trust Tony Hayward? 
     ALLEN:  You know, I get the trust word all the time.  The fact of the matter is we need to have a cooperative productive relationship for this thing to work moving forward.  When I talk to him, I asked for answers, I give them.  You can characterize that as trust partnership cooperation, collaboration or whatever but this has to be a unified effort moving forward if we're going to get this thing solved.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  So, yes.
     ALLEN:  If you go by trust?  Yes.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Admiral, yesterday some local Louisiana officials told us in a subcommittee about frustrations with the federal government's response, the mayor had to choke back tears describing his frustration and the parish president said he still didn't know who was in charge, BP or the Coast Guard.  He spends more time fighting BP officials and Coast Guard officials than he does the oil.  What's going on with the command structure?
     ALLEN:  Several weeks ago we deployed Coast Guard liaisons, rosters to every  parish president.  So any time one of those parish presidents has a problem he can turn to a Coast Guard officer who has direct contact with the incident command post in Houma and he can get whatever they need solved.  They also have connections to the BP folks when it's regarding claims or anything else.  I would ask the gentleman to say give me what your problem was, who did you ask and what happened?  And I'll be able to respond to you.  We've had Coast Guard officers standing next to those guys for three weeks?
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You're not hear anything of this frustration.
     ALLEN:  We have a call every evening with all of those parish liaisons officers.  Just specifically in Louisiana.
     And we work the issues overnight and we have a conduit to us. The parish presidents have a conduit directly into the national incident command and the administration on a conference call.  OK.  So I would be glad to deal with the specific issues that they raise, but I met with them.  I met with the president.  We've been responsive. We brought the Coast Guard officers there and if they have specific issues they'd like to raise with me I would be happy to do that.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Admiral, on the skimmers, in terms of the Jones Act, have you (inaudible) using foreign vessels.
     ALLEN:  Well, there's involving skimming capability offshore supply vessels or tankers or whatever we need and dredges for Louisiana, we are more than willing to consider Jones Act wavers, but we need to have a little bit of homework done upfront.  Has there been an assessment of national inventory?  Are there any other alternative methods to provide those platforms and other issues regarding crude or anything else.  And nobody has come back to the Jones Act waiver but as I told everyone, we are prepared to consider them should that become necessary.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Is there an element of too many vessels on the water maybe running into each other?
     ALLEN:  I'd say right at the well site itself there's a limit to how much activity you can bring there because we've got the "Discovery Enterprise" that is actually producing oil and we got the Q-4000 offset.  That's a mobile drilling unit.  We got a development driller 3, which is the primary relief well.  We got some development driller two to join the second relief well.
     All of those platforms use remotely operated vehicles so at any one particular time you can have 16 to 20 ROVs and every ROV has a platform above it that's being operated from.  And having been out there on many occasions, you can have anywhere from 25 to 30 vessels in about two square miles.  So there's an issue of (inaudible) of that space.  There's an issue about deconfliction of the space on the sea floor regarding ROVs.
     When you move beyond that we're not constrained and therefore as much skimming capacity to bring there or any places else is what we would want to do.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (inaudible) you were hoping to capture 40,000 to 50,000 barrels of oil a he day?  By what period of time and how much of that?
     ALLEN:  They're incrementally building it out.  The proposal was given to us by  BP as an incremental build out of capacity including bringing in production facilities and shuttle tankers that are not normally used in the Gulf of Mexico to the scene.  In fact, they're en route right now.
     So between the middle of June and the first week or so of July, we're going to start incrementally building out a new mooring system and production vessels  that will be linked to shuttle tankers that can accommodate a greater flow rate.  At that point once we know we can do that, we will probably shift from a containment cap we have right now to a more hard cap, which will help us to capture more if not all of the oil that's coming out of the wellhead.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Can you give us a better idea of timing?
     ALLEN:  We're in the process of giving them feedback on their timelines and their proposal right now.  That was the letter that we required them to have to us in 72 hours.  We got that night before last.
     PHILLIPS:   We'll continue to follow everything that Admiral Thad Allen says, of course, to the response effort going on there in the Gulf of Mexico.  Coming up right after the break, stay with us. Bonnie Schneider is going to give us a full report on the status of those beaches in the gulf as you get ready to take  off for the weekend.  So hold on, two more minutes.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     PHILLIPS:  It's not even summer yet, but I'll tell you what, the heat sure feels like summer and not only is it making it difficult for all those workers.  You even pointed that, you know, in full gear working this oil disaster, but on a lighter note for folks wanting to go to the beach, it's not fun when it's 110 degrees.
     BONNIE SCHNEIDER, FOX NEWS:  No, it's not.  And look at these numbers, the high  temperatures for much of Louisiana and now Mississippi will climb into the low 90s, Kyra, but the heat index will get all the way to 105 to 110, 110 in New  Orleans.  110 with the humidity, if not not the dry heat of Arizona.  But well, it's oppressive.
     Let's talk about the beaches since it is the weekend.  And we're getting ready to maybe head out to the beaches for the week and you're probably wondering what's open and what's not?  Well, advisories are in place for Holly Beach in Louisiana.  That's more to the southwest for swimming.  We also have advisories  in some other areas as well like in Martin, a swimming advisory.
     These beaches are open but of course, you're always advise to swim at your own risk.  Be careful out there.
     Here's a look at Alabama, for gulf shores Orange Beach, we have swimming advisories as Fort Organ as well.  You can also see we have some of the beaches close to fishing and that includes gulf state pier in Alabama.  Perdido Pass open.  Once again, a lot of these are open for sunbathing but you are advised to be careful if you are swimming.
     Well, the wind pattern for the oil has kind of been beneficial for Florida because we had more of a southeasterly flow.  So that leaves these beaches here  well open and open for swimming as well all the way down to Carrabelle Beach.
     So the good news is most of the gulf beaches, from Mississippi and to Louisiana  and Florida, Alabama are open, Kyra, but there are some advisories and of course, we'll keep you updated as we get them in.  Back to you.
     PHILLIPS:   All right, Bonnie, thanks. 
     A winning walk for a high school graduate.  A Virginia teen confined to a  wheelchair for months walks across the stage to get his diploma.  You're going to meet him.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     PHILLIPS:   Well, Jawan Trotter had something to prove on his high school graduation night this week.  He was confined to a wheelchair for months with a rare, life-threatening medical condition. Jawan's primary goal, to walk across the stage on commencement night to get his diploma and on Wednesday night, he did it, making his mark and the audience was in awe and to top it all, Jawan graduated with a 3.3 honors diploma.  Congratulations, Jawan.
     Checking other stories across America.
     Minnesota nurses back at work today, but not much has changed since 12,000 of them went on strike yesterday.  They still have no contract with their hospitals and their demand for smaller nurse/patient ratios hasn't even been met.  We hear these scary stories at this time of the year, little kids who can't swim, falling or jumping into the pool, but this story in Maryland has a happy ending with an unlikely hero.  A three-year-old girl jumped into the pool without her floatie and went under.  Her cousin saved her and get this, he's three years old.
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     BRAYDON HAMPTON, SAVED HIS COUSIN:  She fell.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  She did?
     And what did you do?
     HAMPTON:  Save her.  
     DEBBIE LOCKARD-SHELLEY, BRAYDON HAMPTON'S GRANDMOTHER:  She was sitting along the edge of the pool.  He was in the pool with a lot of other kids and stuff, and so then she decides that she wants to jump in.  So she jumped in without her  floaties on, and he was right there and she was going under the water coughing and choking and everything so he grabbed a hold of her.
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     PHILLIPS:   Coming up, the biggest sporting event in the world kicked off today.  No, the Super Bowl isn't in June this year.  Come on, it's the World Cup.  So if you're left scratching  your head about the game of soccer.  Guess what?  We got the Atlanta silverbacks. That's right.  Chick power in studio to demonstrate exactly what you're going to be seeing on the  field.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     PHILIPPE COUSTEAU:  I'm Philippe Cousteau and together we can make an impact to ensure the gulf recovers from this oil spill and this kind go catastrophe.  It never happens again.
     This is the oil.  This is what we're doing right here, right in my hands.
     You have to remember that this is going on for years to come. There will be no shortage of opportunities for people to volunteer in these areas that are directly affected by the spill.  Join the movement.  Impact your world.  Cnn.com/impact.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     PHILLIPS:  Well, every day CNN introduces five ways that might purge oil from the gulf.  They're ideas from scientists, inventors and viewers, devastated fishermen on the gulf coast have had their livelihoods ripped from them and it's a feeling that people in Alaska know all too well.
     20 years ago the accident Exxon Valdez spilled 11 million gallons in the water there and fishermen say they're still dealing with that disaster.
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     PATIENCE ANDERSEN-FAULKNER, ALASKAN CITIZENS ADVISORY COUNCIL: Times are very, very tough.  First of all, we have not got our herring back, 21 years later.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  So will they get their fishing back here?
     FAULKNER:  Well, we just went out for sure for the first time and shrimp for the first time in about 17 years.
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     PHILLIPS:  So just how long will it be for our gulf fishermen and the seafood that we're used to getting?  Our next guest has put it very bluntly.  He said, quote, "my god, do we have to follow the same script?"
     Mark Jones served as a supervisor for the U.S. Navy during the "Exxon Valdez"  disaster and currently runs a company that consults the U.S. fishing industry.  Mark, it's like you're watching history repeat itself.
     MARC JONES, FORMER SUPERVISOR FOR U.S. NAVY DURING EXXON-VALDEZ SPILL:  It is, indeed.
     PHILLIPS:  So, take me back to the Exxon Valdez. I mean, you were watching the fish die before your eyes.  Kind of put in perspective how bad it was for you then.  
     JONES:  Well, in terms of -- you don't see fish stuff.  You see other wild life like sea otters and seals and lots of birds and that sort of thing.  But you know if they're dying, other things are dying as well.  It's just that you're not seeing them.  
     But you know, what's really difficult to deal with, and what will be difficult here is what are the long-term impacts?  Are there going to be things that happen to various populations of fish and animals that are going to go on for a long time?  And that certainly was the case in Valdez, as -- I think you had Ricky Ott on earlier talking about how the herring still haven't come back -- 
     PHILLIPS: And what about the copper river salmon, right?  That's something you saw die out for, like, a decade?  
     JONES:  No, no, the salmon didn't die out.  They were there.  It took a long time, though, to get the market for them to recover.  
     PHILLIPS:  Got it.  
     JONES:  Because there was a perception -- 
     PHILLIPS:  That you couldn't eat it? 
     JONES:  That they somehow were tainted.  
     Say it again?  
     PHILLIPS: You're saying, so even though they were there, for about a decade, people thought it wasn't safe to eat?  Is that what happened?  
     JONES:  It took quite a while for Alaska to fully re-establish their market.  And of course, the market isn't static.  If you have a change in it, there are other aspects of the world economy and that thing that take advantage of it.  For instance, with salmon, the difficulties in Prince William Sound helped to open the door for the establishment of farm salmon, which took a significant part of the overall market away from Alaska's market.  
     PHILLIPS:  Got it. 
     So, let me ask you this then.  This was one of the big questions -- and I heard it when I was out  in the Gulf.  Oh, my gosh.  We can't eat that shrimp.  We can't have the oysters, we probably shouldn't even eat the seafood.  There is the same perception going on right now in the Gulf that you can't eat those things.  
     You've been there.  Can we eat it, and how is all that stuff being checked out?  Because from what I understand, there are investigator types with NOAA going through and actually doing sniff tests on large packages of seafood.  What can you tell us?  
     JONES:  Not just NOAA, but the states, the Gulf coast states. They have inspectors as well.  And they've ramped up the frequency, the depth, every aspect of the -- of the inspection process.  And at this point, don't --  I would say if you're a consumer of seafood, Gulf Coast seafood is fine.  They're checking that every way but upside down. So, they're determined want to sell you something that's tainted or isn't safe --  
     PHILLIPS:  That's good news.  That's what we want to hear.  
     So let me ask you this, Mark.  Knowing what you know from Exxon Valdez, there must be all kinds of similarities that you're seeing with regard to what's happening in the Gulf Coast.  Are there a couple of things that you could tell us, solutions-based, if you were able to sit right there down with the president of the United States and say, "look, I learned this from Exxon Valdez. you've got to be doing this in the Gulf."  What would you tell them?  
     JONES:  I would say the first and foremost thing is that -- and this is the difference between the Gulf and what happened in Alaska. The community -- people are talking about the fishermen, and that's good.  They need help.       But it isn't just the fishermen that need help and the seafood industry.  It's the processors and distributors and in the case of the Gulf coast, the charter boat fishermen, and none of those folks are getting helped.  There are small businesses, they're mom and pop, they need money.  They need money now, or they're not going to survive. And whether or not they file a claim that gets adjudicating paid off ten years from now isn't going to help them because they're not going to survive that long.  
     PHILLIPS:  It's just heart wrenching.  Marc Jones, always appreciate your insight.  Will you come back and join us?  Because I know you're doing consulting out there, and you're able to bring us firsthand information.  Can we do this more?  
     JONES:  You betcha.  
     PHILLIPS:  Fabulous.  We'll be calling you.  Thanks, Marc.  
     JONES:  All right.  Thank you. 
     PHILLIPS:  You bet. 
     Stay with us all next week because as we continue, we'll try to be the network that brings you five ideas a day on how to fix this disaster.  
     It's supposed to shut down an oil well if something goes wrong, but the tragedy in the Gulf shows what can happen when the blowout preventer fails.  In the next hour of CNN NEWSROOM, could the limitations of the safety device lead to another disaster?  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     PHILLIPS:  Day 53 of the Gulf oil disaster.  Admiral Thad Allen says the government -- all right.  I apologize for that.  Let me get in the right spot here.  It's day 53 of the Gulf oil disaster, and here's the deal.  We were listening to Admiral Thad Allen with his live briefing just about 20 minutes ago, and he had come forward to say about $140 million has been spent in cleaning up the oil right now and that federal authorities plan to keep pouring in the money.  He's made that clear.  
     Meanwhile, scientists say the oil crisis bigger than anyone realized.  They studied the high-resolution video of the gusher and said twice as much oil was spilling out than previously thought.  
     And Pope Benedict XVI today, he asked for forgiveness and promised he would never allow priests to abuse children again.  
     Rescuers on their way to a 16-year-old Abby Sunderland.  She was trying to be the youngest person to sail around the world.  But rough seas knocked out her boat's mast and left her adrift on the Indian Ocean.  
     The referee's blind.  He missed a sitter.  Not sure what I'm talking about?  You'll get 411 on World Cup lingo so you can keep it up at the water cooler.  Plus, the Atlanta silverbacks in the house showing us what we'll see this weekend. 
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     (MUSIC PLAYING)
     PHILLIPS:  Oh, yes.  Girl power at its best.  The movie "Bend it like Beckham" kicked soccer to the big screen in the story of an English teen's passion for football and the battle she faces in trying to play the sport that she loves.  The movie was even nominated for a Golden Globe for Best Film in 2003.  
     Well, this morning we have our own girl power in the house to celebrate the kickoff of the World Cup players.  The Atlanta Silverbacks will show case some of your moves -- or some of the moves, rather -- that you'll be seeing on the soccer field during this year's World Cup.  
     But first, more about the World Cup itself.  It's the biggest sporting event on earth, but a lot of us here in this country not exactly experts on it.  So, we'll go to Josh Levs for a little one-on- one with World Cup.  Josh, we should point out -- uh-oh, I have my hands full, but I'll try.  
     Now, we want to point out the reason why we have the gals in studio is because Atlanta doesn't have a men's soccer team, but that's okay.  
     JOSH LEVS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, like they wouldn't be here if we also had a men's soccer team? 
     PHILLIPS:  Yes, I just want to make the point that I'm a little biased.  I wanted girl power in studio here as we're talking all about the men in the World Cup, OK?  
     LEVS:  That's actually a really good point.  It turns out Lauren Fredrigo (ph) is the general manager of Silverbacks was telling me there's actually one for women, too.  She's not quite as famous. People don't realize, right?  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yep.  
     LEVS:  OK, so here's what we're going to -- by the way, I'm so clueless about soccer.  The first thing I said to her was can you spin it on your finger?  Check out what they do instead.  Show everybody, This is such great action.  
     Look at this.  Look at that.  How awesome is that?
     (LAUGHTER)
     LEVS:  Also, you heard it pomp on the mike along the way.  
     PHILLIPS:  She makes it look so easy!  
     LEVS:  That's why I'm so not going to try it on camera today. But this I can handle.  I can handle moving things across the board.       So, we're going to talk the basics of the World Cup, right?  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yep.  
     LEVS:  All right, so, first of all, it happens every four years, kind of like the Olympics.  And it's always one month long, right?  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yep.  
     LEVS:  This is where I need your help.  There are 32 teams. There are more countries that want to be in it.  So, what happens? There's basically a contest.  You have to  -- how is it?  How do they determine who's in it?  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  There are actually World Cup qualifiers, and so you play games prior to the actual World Cup to see if you can get in and qualify.  
     LEVS:  OK.  And then they're drawn (ph) into eight groups.  And the way it's working out this year, the U.S. happens to be in a group in the very beginning.  Our first game tomorrow is actually our biggest rivalry in a way, right?  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yes.  We're playing England.  Big game to kick off the World Cup for the U.S. this year.  
     LEVS:  And we don't have a great record of beating them.  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We don't.  
     LEVS:  So, fingers crossed across the country.  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It's a big year.  
     LEVS:   OK, that right there is a good reason for a lot of people to care. 
     OK, let's go through these.  The terms that we have no clue what they mean, I need you to help me with these.  All right.  So, there's some stuff on CNN.com.  I saw this.  "He missed a sitter," what does that even mean?  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Basically means you missed a freebie goal. Meaning it was sitting on your foot, all you had to do was pass it in, and you missed it. 
     LEVS: it was sitting right there.  Could have just kicked it in.
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It was sitting right there. 
     LEVS:  It was sitting right there.  
     All right.  We have one more for you here.  "It was a blatant dive!"  And that's not what it sounds like.  It's not like diving. What does that mean?       UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It kind of is and it isn't. Essentially, a player can take a dive, meaning they can overexaggerate a trip or a bump in order to get a foul, a call or a card.  So, when they dive, sometimes they scream, sometimes they yell, sometimes they grab the ankle and go down.  Anything to exaggerate the injury.  
     LEVS:  All right, well, listen, thank you for that.  And all of the details are at CNN.com/worldcup.  Now, as I understand it, you all will do a little action, right? 
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We are. We are.
     LEVS:  All right.  Take it away.  Go for it.  
     PHILLIPS:  Come on over with me, Laura.  Okay.  
     We're talking about headers, crosses, volleys.  It sounds like a different language, right?  It's not.  It's just soccer speak, and so what does that all mean?  We have the Atlanta Silverbacks right here with us here this morning to help school us.  We have Megan, Tara, Michelle.  You guys, wave to everybody here.  There we go.  
     Now, Tara, how did you get into playing soccer?  
     TARA, ATLANTA SILVERBACKS PLAYER:  My brother played, and my mom was actually the coach so they kind of roped me in.  
     PHILLIPS:  And are you player than your brother?  C'mon. Be honest.
     TARA:  Absolutely!  
     PHILLIPS:  Of course!  You've got the moves.  
     OK, Michelle, how about you?  How'd you get playing soccer?  
     MICHELLE, ATLANTA SILVERBACKS PLAYER:  To be honest, I was an overweight kid and my parents threw me in some sports, and I found out keepers don't have to run. 
     (LAUGHTER)
     So, that's how I am where I am today.  
     PHILLIPS:  She's blunt.  I love it!  
     OK, same story for you, Megan?  What's your background.  How'd you get playing soccer? 
     MEGAN, ATLANTA SILVERBACKS PLAYER:  I just -- I was an athletic kid and I wanted to try something new.  Something more active for me, so.  
     PHILLIPS:  You guys are definitely active.   OK, now what do you think?  What should we demonstrate?  What would be the most visual?  A header, a volley?  Show me some tricks.       UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yes, I think we'll demonstrate a volley first because it's a lot more commonly used than a header.  Everyone talks about a header because they think it is so exciting.  
     PHILLIPS:  Well, it looks cool!  Right!
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It looks cool.  But really, you use your feet most of the time.  We can demonstrate a couple of volleys.  You know, the best way - you know, the most common goals scored are off the volleys or goals off your laces.  We'll demonstrate this, a quick little kick.  I think Megan will do it off her laces here, which is a nice little volley.  We're expecting to see a lot of goals in the World Cup - 
     (LAUGHTER) 
     PHILLIPS:  If we don't knock Kyra out, right?  
     And, Laura, while they're doing a few things for us, how do you -- put in perspective for us.  We talked so much about the guys' soccer teams during the World Cup, but and soccer is huge among female athletes.  I mean, the names you remember. Brandi Chasthain, right, and Mia Hamm.  They got so many gals playing soccer and brought a lot of attention to the sport.  It's not just World Cup, right?
      UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yes, and the national team really helped do that in the U.S. because their success in '95 and '96 World Cup in Olympics back-to-back really helped pave the way for more college teams, more club teams and opportunities to play.  It's actually one of the top participation sports for girls in the country.  
     PHILLIPS:  Really?   
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  it's a great opportunity for them to learn some skills in leadership, dedication and work ethic.  And kids are starting younger and younger these days.  
     PHILLIPS:  Now we're seeing the header.  I love it.  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Now we're seeing the header.  
     PHILLIPS:  Now, be honest, gals. When you do these, all right, Megan -- is there any time where you're, like, ooh, that hurt, I've got to sit down?  
     MEGAN:  A couple of times.  
     PHILLIPS:  A couple of times.  
     MEGAN:  A few here and there.  
     PHILLIPS:  Michelle, Tara, what do you think?  Has there ever been a move you've done where you thought, whoo, OK,  that was a little much.  
     MICHELLE:  I've been knocked out on camera before by heading a ball.  It hit me wrong, and I was actually knocked it.  So, yes, I understand the ball can take you out.  
     PHILLIPS:  OK.  Hopefully that is not going to happen here. Let's try not to do that.
     All right, I've got to ask you gals, you're watching the World Cup, obviously.  This is your sport, you love it, male, female, it doesn't matter.  What are you guys paying attention to?  Is there something you're looking for?  Is there a certain player?  Tara, what do you think?  
     TARA:  I'm really -- I love Messi (ph) and watching him play. He's a great (INAUDIBLE) artist.  He knows how to find the back of the net, so I'm looking forward to seeing him play.  
     PHILLIPS:  You know, maybe we should bring up our full screens here.  I was kind of flipping through.  All right, can I be a little biased here, when we were talking about the hottest players, not just talent wise.  Oh, my gosh, Cristiano Ronaldo, hel-lo!   Is like that the heartthrob among the World Cup?  
     MEGAN:  He's my heartthrob.  
     PHILLIPS:  He's your heartthrob.  Is he your hero?  
     MEGAN:  He is.  
     PHILLIPS: OK, tell me why.  Not just because he's hot, but tell me about him as an athlete.  
     MEGAN:  He's great to look at and also a great goal scorer -- and playing forward, just like him.  I want to be just like him.  
     PHILLIPS:  Look at - 
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  And sign a $300 million contract as well.  
     PHILLIPS:  I don't blame you.  
     Michelle, how about you?  Lionel Messi - Tara, you'll talk about Lionel in a minute.  Cristiano, Wayne Rooney, who have you got your eye on?  
     MICHELLE:  I mean, I'd say Rooney.  I hate to admit it, I hate goals.  I'm a keeper, but he's got 100 plus within the league in England, so I'd say him.  I mean, I don't think he's as good to look at as Cristiano, but he gets it done.  
     PHILLIPS:  But he gets it done.  I love it.  And Tara, your guy, Lionel from Argentina, baby!   What is it about him?  
     TARA:  He's so confident on the ball.  We all like a confident man, you know?  I really like Messi and how he controls, especially in the 18 yard box.  He just gets the job done.  
     PHILLIPS:  I love it to hear these ladies.  They know what they want; they know how to play.  All right, ladies, I'll tell you what, give me a few moves while we take it to break.  We sure appreciate you joining us.  
     The Atlanta Silverbacks in the house.  Also, there are tons of excited soccer fans in London, as you know. England takes on the U.S. tomorrow.  We'll go live to London right after the break.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     PHILLIPS:  As you know, we've been talking World Cup this morning, and millions of people all around the world are watching the first game going on right now between South Africa and Mexico. 
      Our Zain Verjee is actually in London, where fans are especially riled up right now.  Of course, you know, England's always had good soccer players.  It's a part of the culture.  Zain, give me a feel for what's going on.  
     ZAIN VERJEE, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, first of all, Kyra, you are going to call this football for the next four weeks, okay, in that's what this is.  There you go.  
     (LAUGHTER)
     Now, what's going on here is that these are just some of the 1 billion people around the world watching what's known as the beautiful game.  Kyra, it is bigger than the Olympics.  It is way bigger than Super Bowl.  We're almost reaching halftime in a match between South Africa's Bafana Bafana and Mexico.  
     You know, a home team has never lost a world cup match, the first one, so it's really going to be a big deal to see what happens. Everyone's dancing a little bit now and blowing these trumpets.  It's called the vuvuzela, Kyra.  
     PHILLIPS:  The Vuvuzela?  Am I saying that right?  
     VERJEE:  Vuvuzela!  
     PHILLIPS:  Oh, my gosh!
     If all of you really knew Zain Verjee, believe me, she loves to dance and she loves to have a good time and she has grown up overseas and knows all about this football craze.  All right, so, Zain, talk us to about the U.S. team.  What do you think?  How are they expected to do?  
     VERJEE: Well, a lot of people are looking at the U.S. team and they're saying, okay, the U.S. team are rookies, but they have a lot of respect for them.  The U.S. is in a group with three other teams: England, Algeria and Slovenia.  They play England tomorrow.  And England is a pretty tough team, they invented this game.  
     Basically, the U.S. has to look for two weaknesses that England has.  One is they take a while to warm up during the World Cup.  The other is that they're kind of short tempered.  They get petulant. They get annoyed and every now and then, they get kicked off the field because of that.  The leader - the U.S. would hope that they would get two yellow cards -- that's what you get when you're bad or one red card which is what you get when you're very bad.  
     Leave the pitch, no substitute, and you can't play in the next match.  Kyra! 
     PHILLIPS:  Zain, how many times have we been doing live shots together, and we've had producers throwing down red cards and yellow cards, so this is perfect that we're talking about this.  
     VERJEE: That is exactly right, Kyra.  A lot of people here are saying that even if South Africa does not win today, this is a moment of pride, Kyra, for all of Africa.  It's a small step for football, but a big step for the continent.  We're not not just poor, -- and, hey! Bafana Bafana!  
     They want to show the world a great, positive image of Africa and that Africa can deliver.  
     (AUDIENCE CHEERING)
     PHILLIPS:  Oh, it will be a positive event, all right.  It's going to be one big party.  Let me tell you, everyone will be watching. 
     Zain Verjee, thank you so much!  We'll continue to watch the World Cup in addition to the other day's news.  Quick break from the CNN NEWSROOM.  More ahead.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     PHILLIPS:  There's a new victim of the Gulf oil spill, and it's a fixture of New Orleans' French Quarter.  The P & J Oyster company has been around for 134 years.  It's weathered the Depression and two World Wars.  But for the first time, it has had to lay off the people who shuck those oysters.  The oil spill has choked off the supply of the company's lifeblood.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     AL SUNSERI, PRESIDENT, P & J OYSTER COMPANY:  They closed one of the main growing areas in which we get a lot of our oysters from.  
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It's going to be hard for us.  I don't know what we're going to do.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     PHILLIPS:  The company says at least for now it will buy oysters from Alabama.  They're already shucked, but those suppliers are also dwindling.  Once those oysters run out, the company said it may end its 134-year run. 
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     (MUSIC PLAYING)
     PHILLIPS:  Every day at this time, we're lifting up the men and women who gave their lives in service to our country.  We call it "Home and Away."  We'll tell you how you can be a part of it.  
     But right now we want to tell you about Sergeant Ralph Porras. He was killed in Iraq in September 2006.  A neighbor wrote in to us to tell us about Ralph.  She said, quote, "He was always there for me, no matter what I needed.  Never asked for anything in return."  She called him a quote, "dedicated soldier who wanted nothing more than to be with his fellow troops and fight for his country."  
     If you know someone like Ralph, we want to hear from you.  Go to CNN.com/homeandaway.  Click on a hometown, pull up the service member's bio.  Add your thoughts, your pictures.  We'll keep those memories alive, I promise.  
     Have a fabulous weekend.  Thanks for sharing your Friday with us. Tony Harris picks it up from here.

	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired June 11, 2010 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     TONY HARRIS, CNN ANCHOR:  Good morning, everyone.  
     Live from Studio 7 at CNN world headquarters, the big stories for Friday, June 11th.  
     President Obama focuses on getting you and the nation back to work.  He is meeting right now with small business owners and will speak shortly about his initiatives.  
     Plus -- 
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     PROF. ROBERT BEA, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA:  You can keep on pushing equipment to the point of where it breaks, and I think we broke it.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     HARRIS:  It could happen again.  Experts warn another oil disaster is possible due to the high failure rate of blowout preventers used in all similar drilling operations worldwide.  
     And -- 
     (MUSIC PLAYING)
     HARRIS:  Well, that's what I'm talking about.  It's all about the World Cup and Shakira.  Soccer's biggest tournament kicking off with a massive celebration in South Africa.  And let the games begin.  
     Good morning, everyone.  I'm Tony Harris.
     Those stories and your comments -- bye, Kyra -- right here, right now, in the CNN NEWSROOM.
     Fifty-three days into the oil catastrophe in the Gulf, and scientists have doubled -- that's right, doubled -- their estimate of how much oil may be leaking.  Researchers now say between 20,000 and 40,000 barrels a day may be gushing from the busted well.  The new estimates are based in part on high-resolution video released by BP.  
     President Obama meets Wednesday with top BP executives.  BP's chairman and other "appropriate officials" summoned to the White House.  That's likely to include CEO Tony Hayward.  He testifies before Congress the next day.  
     The president of Louisiana's Plaquemines Parish says he doesn't know where to direct his anger.  Billy Nungesser testified before a Senate panel about his frustration.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     BILLY NUNGESSER, PRESIDENT, PLAQUEMINES PARISH, LOUISIANA:  I still don't know who's in charge.  Is it BP?  Is it the Coast Guard?  
     When I get mad enough in a meeting, the Coast Guard in our office stands up and says, "I can make that happen."  When I throw a BP official out of my office, he comes back the next day and approves something.  I have spent more time fighting the officials of BP and the Coast Guard than fighting the oil.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     HARRIS:  Wow. 
     It's the device that's supposed to shut down an oil well if something goes wrong, but the tragedy in the Gulf shows what can happen when the so-called blowout preventer fails.  
     CNN's Allan Chernoff examines the limitations of the safety device and whether that could lead to another disaster.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     ALLAN CHERNOFF, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  (voice-over):  An out-of- control oil gusher off  western Australia last year.  Off shore and on shore, there have been numerous so-called oil rig blowouts, just like this one in Louisiana.  Just not as big as the Deepwater Horizon.
     PROF. STEVE SEARS, LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY:  The blowout preventer should be able to close and prevent any escape from the wellbore.  But, obviously, nothing is absolutely fail-safe, as we've recently seen in the Gulf of Mexico.
     CHERNOFF:  The safety of oil drilling depends upon the reliability of a blowout preventer. 
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     HARRIS:  OK.  All right.  Let's get you to the Rose Garden now and President Obama.  
     (JOINED IN PROGRESS) 
     BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  -- with these small business owners and a few of their workers, and we talked about some of the economic challenges facing these folks.  And we talked about the ways that our government can make it easier for smaller firms to hire and to grow.  
     These men and women know how important it is because, historically, small businesses have created roughly two out of every three new jobs in our country.  And to replace the millions of jobs lost in the recession, we're going to need to make sure that small companies are able to open up and expand and add names to their payroll.  
     Small businesses will help lead this economic recovery, and that's why we will continue to stand by them.  But ensuring that small businesses can thrive is about more than just economic success, it's also about who we are as a people.  It's about a nation where anybody who's got a good idea and a willingness to work hard can succeed.  
     That's the central promise of America.  It's that promise that has drawn millions of people to our shores.  It's what drives workers to become their own bosses.  It's what propels some basement inventor to bring a new concept to market.  
     That's what led two guys, Bobby Pancake and Steve Wheat -- their real names -- who are here today to take a chance and try their hand at actually running restaurants.  Obviously, they'd have to be restaurateurs named "Pancake" and "Wheat."  
     They worked for a restaurant chain for years, but they decided to leave the corporate offices and open up their own franchises.  In fact, Bobby and Steve told me they recently opened up their sixth location.  And Terry Haney (ph), the general manager of one of their locations, is also here.  
     This same promise of being able to build your own dreams and be your own boss led Prachi Davidos (ph) to come to this country and become a citizen, and open up what's become a successful technology services company.  Prachi (ph) told me that when she started, she had just one employee.  Today, she employs more than 100 people, including her husband Anan (ph), who is here today.  
     So, the fact is that small businesses all across the country are hiring people, making a difference in their communities, giving back to their communities, but they've also been especially hard hit by the recession.  
     From the middle of 2007 to the end of 2008, small businesses lost 2.4 million jobs.  And because banks shrunk from lending in the midst of this financial crisis, it's been particularly difficult for small business owners to take out loans, to open up shop, or expand.  It's been hard to finance inventories and payroll and new equipment.  
     Now, I've said before, and I'll repeat, government can't guarantee success for these companies, but it can knock down barriers that prevent owners from getting loans.  Government can't create private sector jobs, but it can create the conditions for small businesses like these to grow and to hire more people.  That's what's guided much of our economic agenda.  
     So let me be specific.  Last year, we enacted seven tax cuts for America's small businesses.  Seven tax cuts.  So far, the Recovery Act has supported over 68,000 loans to small business, which translates into nearly $29 billion in new lending.       More than 1,300 banks and credit unions that had not made SBA loans since before the financial crisis are now lending again.  More than $8 billion in federal Recovery Act contracts are now going to small businesses.  In fact, Prachi (ph) has been able to add 20 part- time and full-time workers because of the Recovery Act.  
     In addition, as a result of a bill I signed into law a few months ago, businesses are now eligible for tax cuts when they hire.  When they hire unemployed workers, they're eligible for tax cuts. Companies are also able to write off more of their investments in new equipment.
     And as part of the health reform package, four million small business owners recently received a postcard in their mailboxes from the IRS, and it was actually good news.  It told them that they could be eligible for a health care tax credit this year that could be worth perhaps tens of thousands of dollars to these small businesses.  So, these and other steps are making a difference.  
     A little more than a year ago, the economy was in free-fall. Today it's growing again.  
     A little more than a year ago, the economy was losing an average of 750,000 jobs per month.  It's now been adding jobs for five months in a row.  But even though we are in the process of digging ourselves out of this recession, we're still in a pretty deep hole.  
     Millions of our family members, our friends, our neighbors are still looking for work.  They're still faced with the prospects of long-term unemployment.  Credit is still less available than it should be, particularly to small businesses.  
     And small business owners like Prachi (ph) and Bobby and Steve will tell you, we may be recovering, but we're not yet recovered.  We have to keep moving forward.  
     And that's why I'm urging Congress to swiftly approve a set of tax breaks and lending incentives to spur hiring and growth in small businesses.  The legislation that's being debated right now would eliminate capital gains taxes for investments in small firms which will help move capital to these companies across America.  
     It will provide tax relief to small startups to encourage folks to open up businesses as well.  To foster more credit, the package would create the small business lending fund I proposed in my State of the Union Address to help underwrite loans through community banks. And we create a new state small business credit initiative because states facing budget shortfalls are scaling back lending to small firms and manufacturers.  That's working against our recovery.  
     I'm also urging Congress to expand and extend successful SBA programs by increasing loan limits, for example, something that could benefit people like Bobby and Steve.  
     In fact, since the start of my administration, we've been hearing from small businesses that want to retain and hire more employee, but they need additional credit.  And we've been hearing from small community banks that want to lend to small businesses, but they need additional capital.  So, this bill helps fulfill both needs.  
     And to help us create jobs without adding to our deficit, we're making the tough choices to pay for these proposals.  So, I'm hopeful that the House will pass these measures next week and that the Senate will follow as soon as possible, with both support from Democrats and Republicans.  And I'm eager to sign this tax relief and additional lending into law.  
     That's how we can continue to move our economy forward, to continue on the path from recession to recovery, but also ultimately to prosperity.  
     Thank you very much, everybody.  
     HARRIS:  OK.  President Obama talking to us about small business and the importance of small business.  
     You know, let's take a moment to talk about that.
     Small businesses, look, as you just heard, extremely important to the labor market.  Small businesses employ about half of all private sector workers.  
     Small businesses generate 14.5 million of the 22.5 million new jobs netted between 1993 and 2009.  That's 64 percent of job gains.
     Plus, small businesses are everywhere -- 99.7 percent of U.S. employers are small businesses.  That's more than 29 million companies in all.  And they are creative.  Small businesses produced 13 times more patents per employee than large patenting firms.  
     Say that fast five times.  
     Checking other big stories for you.
     In Arkansas, a desperate search this hour for campers who got caught in a flash flood.  Right now, at least six drownings are confirmed and other campers are unaccounted for.
     It happened during the night in the Albert Pike camp in the in Montgomery County.  Up to seven inches of rain fell in the area.  
     They went to the White House looking for answers and assurances. I will talk with the father of one of the workers killed in the oil rig explosion about his meeting with President Obama.  
     It is the weekend, and many of you are thinking of a trip to the beach.  Meteorologist Bonnie Schneider is keeping track of which ones are open along the Gulf Coast.  
     We are back in a moment.  
     You're in the CNN NEWSROOM for a Friday.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     HARRIS:  Relatives of the 11 workers killed in the Gulf oil rig explosion discussed their concerns with President Obama.  The president met with the families at the White House yesterday.  A spokesman says he expressed his condolences and assured them of the administration's support.  
     Keith Jones lost his son in the rig explosion, and he joins us from Washington to talk about the meeting with the president.  
     Keith, we are so sorry for your loss.  Thank you for taking the time to talk us to.  
     KEITH JONES, SON KILLED IN OIL RIG EXPLOSION:  Thank you, Tony. You're welcome.  
     HARRIS:  Tell us about your meeting yesterday with President Obama.  What did you and your son say to the president?  
     JONES:  Well, we lobbied him.  Chris and I, of course, have been pretty persistent about the unfairness of the Death on the High Seas Act.  And so, when it was our opportunity to speak to the president, we told him that, and I talked to him about the Death on the High Seas Act, about how unfair it was, and how the situation now exists as to punitive damages was quite unfair.
     And the president listened.  He is a very empathetic man, and empathized with everybody there, I think.  And I'm confident that whatever bills that we can get through Congress -- and I am increasingly confident that we will pass some very significant bills on these issues -- that once they get to the president's desk, they'll get signed.  
     HARRIS:  Yes.  That was part of the hard work for you and your son yesterday.  
     I'm curious as to what you think of the president's decision to temporarily halt drilling.  After all, it is how your son made a living.  
     JONES:  It was.  And he actually addressed the entire group about that towards the end of our meeting, because many people there expressed their concerns about that.  They have relatives or friends who are not working right now because of the moratorium on deepwater drilling.  
     The president made it clear, none of the lives, none of the 11, are worth the risk, let alone 11 more, are worth the risk until we know what the problem was.  We're learning little by little if whoever it is that made these decisions -- and it looks increasingly like one party was responsible for most, if not all of them -- would come forward and be men about it and tell us what they did wrong and why this shouldn't -- couldn't happen again if they had only done what they should have done.  Then maybe drilling in the deep water could resume.  
     HARRIS:  Given that rationale from the president, how do you feel about the moratorium?  
     JONES:  I'm in favor of it.  I think most of the people in the room yesterday that may have been against it coming in were in favor of it when they left for the reasons that the president gave.  It's just not worth the risk right now until we can know what the problem was.  
     HARRIS:  Keith, what do you want to hear, if anything, from BP at this point?  
     JONES:  I have heard nothing from BP, not a word.  Nobody in our family has.  
     I don't care to hear from BP unless it's in the form of an acknowledgement of all the things that went wrong with this rig, all the bad decisions that were made that led to the death of 11 men.  If they want to come forth and explain to us what they did and, if possible, why they did it, I'd listen to that.  
     HARRIS:  Last question for you.  How did you come to terms -- I'm, for a moment, trying to put myself, as a father of a son, in your shoes.  How do you come to terms with losing a son in this way?  He was killed while on the job, doing his job.  
     JONES:  I don't come to terms with it.  I don't think anybody comes to terms with losing their son whether on the job or any other way.  
     I have been able to redirect my grief, I think, by working as hard as I've been working, along with my son Chris, to change the law so it will treat these people fairly.  Not generously, fairly.  
     And that may be -- if there are terms to which I may come, maybe that's it.  Maybe knowing that something of this magnitude had to happen before the law could be made to treat victims fairly.  If that can happen, maybe that will help me come to terms with it.  
     HARRIS:  Keith, we appreciate your time.  We are so sorry for your loss.  Thanks.  
     JONES:  Thank you very much.  
     HARRIS:  And when we come back we'll be updating some breaking news for you.  We are hearing that 12 people are dead after flash flooding in Arkansas.  And State Trooper Bill Sadler is on the phone with us.  So let's continue this conversation.   
     Trooper Sadler, what can you tell us about this?  
     BILL SADLER, PIO, ARKANSAS STATE POLICE:  First of all, I'm a civilian.  I'm a public information officer for the department.  
     HARRIS:  OK.  
     SADLER:  The water along the lower (ph) Missouri River flows through Pike and Montgomery Counties, Arkansas.  A very rugged area, a very remote area, crested this morning at about 5:30 local time.  
     At this time, we have confirmed through a search of at least 12 known to be dead.  We believe there are still individuals trapped in that area.  
     The primary mission of the Arkansas State Police, working with local authorities right now, is to get the living out of that area and locate the dead.  This is an ongoing search operation at this hour.  
     HARRIS:  Have you been able to locate survivors at this point?  
     SADLER:  There have been survivors located in this area.  There are multiple camps along this stretch of the river.  It's a very, as I said, rugged area, so it's going to be a prolonged operation.  Water is beginning to recede in the area, but it's going to be later today before we're confident that we've gotten the living out of that area.  
     HARRIS:  My goodness.  And do you have -- maybe you can just describe the kind of resources, the kinds of material that will be necessary for you to make these rescues.
     What are you going to need?  
     SADLER:  At this moment we have two helicopters in the area that are working to locate and assist in extrication of the living, and pinpoint where bodies may be located.  There's a temporary morgue that has been set up, and local authorities are providing volunteers that are familiar with the area to move in, in a systems search.  
     HARRIS:  So you're talking about helicopter rescues.  That's how rugged this area is.  
     SADLER:  That's correct.  
     HARRIS:  Well, that is extraordinarily risky.  
     Are the survivors able to communicate -- I'm thinking cell phones -- to give you a better fix on where they are exactly?  
     SADLER:  No.  This is a very remote area.  
     HARRIS:  Yes.  No signal.
     SADLER:  We're even having difficulty with our radio communications in that area.  We're moving toward satellite hookups right now.  So, it's going to be a while before we have reliable communications in that area.  
     HARRIS:  OK.  
     Bill Sadler for us.  
     Bill, appreciate it.  Thanks for updating us on this story.
     SADLER:  Yes.  All right.  
     (WEATHER REPORT)   
     HARRIS:  Let's take a break.  We're back in a moment.
     You're in the CNN NEWSROOM.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     HARRIS:  Joran van der Sloot was charged with murder today in the killing of a woman in his Lima, Peru, hotel room last month.  And investigators say he has also told them he knows where to find Natalee Holloway's body, but he says he will only talk to authorities in Aruba, where the Alabama teenager vanished in 2005.  Van der Sloot was being interrogated about last month's killing of Stephany Flores.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     HARRIS:  You know, it is the device that's supposed to shut down an oil well if something goes wrong, but the tragedy in the Gulf shows what can happen when the blowout preventer fails.  CNN's Allan Chernoff examines the limitations of the safety device and whether that could lead to another disaster.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     ALLAN CHERNOFF, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  An out-of- control oil gusher off western Australia last year.  Offshore and onshore there have been numerous so-called oil rig blowouts just like this one in Louisiana, just not as big as the Deepwater Horizon.  
     PROF STEVE SEARS, LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY:  The blowout preventer should be able to close and prevent any escape from the wellbore, but obviously, nothing is absolutely failsafe as we've recently seen in the Gulf of Mexico.  
     CHERNOFF:  The safety of oil drilling depends upon the reliability of a blowout preventer.  Rig workers use them to keep a well under control especially when oil and gas surge or kick up from a well.  
     (on camera):  The blowout preventer is a faucet on top of the oil well that prevents oil and gas from gushing up to the surface.  When the valves don't do the trick, the blowout preventer can choke the actual drilling pipe, just like I'm squeezing this straw.  
     But when that doesn't do the trick, there's another line of defense.  Blowout preventers have giant shears that are supposed to be able to cut the drilling pipe, just like I'm snipping this straw.  
     Now the problem is deep under water the pressure is very intense and the pipes have to be fixed especially the joints between them and those joints, they are very hard to cut.  
     (voice-over):  A study done for the government's Minerals Management Service warned of such trouble in shearing drilling pipe deep under water.  Initial research painted "...a grim picture of the probability of success when utilizing this final tool in securing a well."  
     UCAL-Berkeley Professor Robert Bea is the former chief offshore engineer for Shell.  
     PROF. ROBERT BEA, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA:  If the blowout preventers had a probability in failing to crush that pipe that approaches 50 percent that it would be like getting on an airplane and having a 50 percent chance of making it to your destination.  
     CHERNOFF:  Professor Bea warns blowout preventers are not reliable in the deep sea.  
     BEA:  You can keep on pushing equipment to the point of where it breaks, and I think we broke it.  
     CHERNOFF:  In fact, BP told congressional investigators there were leaks in the hydraulic system of the Deepwater Horizon's blowout preventer as well as a dead battery.
     Yet another safety concern -- the dead man system, the final safety switch for a blowout preventer that's lost communication with its oil rig.  It's supposed to trigger the blowout prevent tore shut the well.  But another study for the Minerals Management Service found, "Many operator and contractor personnel refused to arm the system from fear that it will either not operate when needed or activate inappropriately, causing downtime."  
     The dead man switch did not activate during BP's April 20th blowout.  That's another reason why industry experts concede oil drilling safety improvements are now critically needed.  
     BENTON BAUGH, PRESIDENT, RADOIL:  This is life.  An event like this will happens again, we need to be better prepared next time.  
     CHERNOFF:  All these problems point to the possibility, however remote, of another tragic accident.  
     Allan Chernoff, CNN, New York.  
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     HARRIS:  You know in California almost 60 percent of folks who get out of prison end up back behind bars within three years; some call it the revolving door.  This week's CNN Hero broke that cycle. Once addicted to crack, six-time inmate Susan Burton got out, got clean and transformed her life.  Now she's helping female offenders do the same thing.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     SUSAN BURTON, COMMUNITY CRUSADER:  I'm writing in regards to my parole plan.  I'm 21 years old with two strikes.  
     I'm scared to relapse again.  
     I want to be a success story.       Please hold a bed for me.  
     We all leave prison saying I'm going to get my life on track, and you end up getting off a bus in downtown Los Angeles, Skid Row. People know who you are when you come off that bus and you're targeted.  Many times you don't even make it out of the Skid Row area before you're caught up into that cycle again.  
     My name is Susan Burton.  After my son died I used drugs.  I just spiraled into a pit of darkness.  I went to prison six times. Finally, I found rehab, and I thought, I can help women come home from prison.  
     I pick them up, bring them back to the house.  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Miss Burton is like a mother for all of us. She offer you a warm bed, food.  Like a real family.  
     BURTON:  I want to see you try.  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  OK.  
     UNIDENTIFIED  FEMALE:  She made me want to change my life.
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  You proud of me, Miss Burton?
     BURTON:  Sure.  You came a long way.  
     I want the women to realize that they have something to contribute.  This is giving life.  That's what it's all about.  
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     HARRIS:  Oh, boy.  Since 1998, Susan Burton has helped more than 400 women get their lives on track.  To see the story of one of her more challenging cases and to nominate someone you think is literally changing the world, just go to CNN.com/heroes.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     HARRIS:  Updating breaking news for you.  We are hearing 12 people are dead after flash flooding in Arkansas.  It happened during the night in the Albert Pike Camp, that's in Montgomery County. Overnight up to seven inches of rain fell in the area.  
     Bonnie Schneider, if you would, show us exactly where this is on the map that you have at your disposal.  
     BONNIE SCHNEIDER, AMS METEOROLOGIST:  All right.  Here's a look at where the campground is and it's in the Ozarks, which is a really popular vacation area.  Now that we're into June, people are certainly going there for vacation.
     And look at the mountainside, you can see where the campground is in the lower lying area.  So when you're talking about a lot of rain and hits the mountains, the only way it can go is straight down and that's why we're talking about so much rain.  
     You've got to see these pictures.  This is coming in from our Nextred (ph) site, and it shows storm accumulation.  Notice the pink right here, this is just incredible.  This is Montgomery County, this is where, unfortunately, those people lost their lives in the flash flooding.  Tony, this is a total of up to 10 inches or more of rain. Imagine 10 inches of water --
     HARRIS:  Wow.  We've been talking about seven inches, but you're talking about up to ten inches?  
     SCHNEIDER:  According to our calculations and to southwestern -- southeastern, I should say, Montgomery County is where we saw the heaviest rain.  
     So this is happening at a rainfall rate of two to three inches per hour.  That means it's happening so fast that it's almost impossible to get out once you're caught in it and that's what we're seeing here.
     And just to let you know that we're not out of the woods yet for this area here.  We still have a flash flood watch in effect for a good portion of Arkansas, and you can see it here on the map, and it does include Little Rock all of the way up toward Jonesboro which is more toward Tennessee.  
     But it's important to note there are still scattered showers and thunderstorms in the area and that could bring the threat of more water.  The worst of it is over but still, 10 inches of rain in the low-lying area, that's just a terrible situation there.  
     HARRIS:  So, Bonnie, we talked to the public information officer to the Arkansas State Police who told us the primary mission of the Arkansas State Police right now, working with local authorities right now to get the living out of the area and to locate the dead.  Boy. Two helicopters in the area working to locate and assist rescuing the living.  And this is Bill Sadler whom we spoke to just a couple of moments ago, and he also adds local authorities are providing search volunteers.  This is an effort that will take some time.  As Bonnie just highlighted, this is a very rugged, remote area.  
     Let's take a quick break.  You're in the CNN NEWSROOM.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     HARRIS:  World Cup fever is sweeping the globe right now.  You are looking at fans in South Africa -- well, I want to see, too -- which is hosting the event.  The host team is playing Mexico right now in game one, and my understanding is the score is 1-1.  
     Millions of people around the world are tuning in to watch the month-long football tournament.  For many, the games is just a click away.  Tech expert Katie Linendoll joining us from New York without the glasses.  
     Looking good, Katie-Katie.  Good to see you on a Friday.       KATIE LINENDOLL, CNN TECH EXPERT:  Yes, but Tony, we made a deal. I said no glasses if you painted your face for my segment.  
     HARRIS:  Oh, since it's World Cup, do you have -- well, you've got to go USA, you've got to go red, white and blue, right?  
     LINENDOLL:  Absolutely.
     HARRIS:  That's going to happen in this month-long tournament.  
     Katie, good to see you.  First of all, a couple of questions. We're going to talk about why this event is so high tech and how folks stay connected, but to the first question.  Why is this World Cup so high tech?  
     LINENDOLL:  Yes.  This is actually crazy.  This is the most high tech World Cup ever and it's not just for the number of new media, multimedia platforms, but also the way the game is being played.  And let's start with that host city of South Africa right in Johannesburg. 
     I want to tell you something about the stadium.  What they've done to accommodate the 70,000 screaming, loud, crazy fans is they've actually brought in a 4,700-ton glass ceiling.  And what this does is, the residents, they were worried about the noise -- no problem.  It will keep the noise inside the stadium, but also it's going to keep the winds, which come up the 50 miles per hour off the Indian and Atlantic Oceans off the stadium, which is pretty remarkable.  So we're talking about a stadium that's structurally engineered with revolutionary technology.
     But that stadium as well has also used fiberglass on the exterior.  So get this, Tony, it actually changes color.  Johannesburg will see the stadium light up.  At noon it looks about blue and by sunset the stadium looks like it's red, so pretty amazing.  
     But also, we're going to jump inside the stadium because I want to tell you about some of the technology that's going on inside the game.  We're going to start off here with the new Adidas World Cup ball.  And you might be asking why is this different.  Well, this isn't a hand-stitched ball, which we're used to seeing with a soccer ball.  It is actually thermally round, making it the most round, most accurate ball ever used.  It's also going to make it waterproof.  So really incredible technology right down the units they're using.  
     And also -- looks like a regular jersey, but what's awesome about it is Adidas has created these techfit (ph) jerseys that are not only 35 percent lighter, but they are proven to give athletes an advantage giving them more speed, power, endurance and efficiency.  
     So we're seeing it across the boards.  
     HARRIS:  That is tremendous.  All right, so look, I want to know how I go about staying connected during this month-long event here.  
     LINENDOLL:  Absolutely, and there is way too many ways to stay connected and that's the really cool part about the World Cup this year.  
     Let's start off with TV.  If you're an early adopter, ESPN 3D will be displaying 25 of the 64 matches in 3Dd immersive technology, so really phenomenal right there.  
     But if you're like me and you're constantly on the go and you're traveling and you want all 64 of those matches, I have got to show you my new BFF.  This is FloTV and it's actually streaming the game right now between South Africa and Mexico.  It's a portable unit that you can take anywhere.  It's a subscription -based service, but as I mentioned, all 64 games will be shown right on the unit.  Pretty cool. 
     Also on the web, ESPN 3D streaming 54 of the games.  And Univision, if you know a little Spanish, all 64 games will be streamed as well.  
     Mobile devices, the first time ever that carriers will also be streaming matches and also be doing all of the highlights and also be doing all the highlights.
     And last but not least, we're talking apps.  If you have a smartphone or if you have an iPad, we have you covered because there are a lot of cool apps one of them being FIFA 2010 and another being World Cup Factoids and History to give you player bios stats and information on 32 teams.  
     And of course, if you're on Twitter, @WorldCup to stay informed.  
     Tony, I want a face paint next time.  
     HARRIS:  You are the coolest kid in the cool kid parade.  Katie, have a great weekend, see you next week.
     LINENDOLL:  Thank you.
     HARRIS:  We have to get to take a break.  We're way long in this segment.  
     You're in the CNN NEWSROOM.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     HARRIS:  In Arkansas, frantic search efforts are underway right now for campers caught up in a flash flood.  At least 12 people are now confirmed dead, other campers are still missing.  The water rushed through in the darkness after heavy rain overnight.  The area is in a national forest in a rugged section of western Arkansas.  Bonnie Schneider telling us moments ago it is also very, very hot there right now.  Here is part of my conversation with Arkansas State Police Public Information Officer Bill Sadler just moments ago.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     BILL SADLER, PIO, ARKANSAS STATE POLICE (via telephone):  -- flows through Pike in Montgomery County is Arkansas.  Very rugged area, very remote area.  Crested this morning at about 5:30 local time.  
     At this time we have confirmed through a search of at least 12 known to be dead.  We believe there's still some individuals trapped in that area.  The primary mission of the Arkansas State Police working with local authorities right now is to get the living out of that area and locate the dead.  
     This is an ongoing search operation at this hour.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     HARRIS:  Josh Levs with more on this horrible developing story -- Josh.  
     JOSH LEVS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, not the kind of thing anyone wants to hear.  
     Let's do this, we've been taking a look at where this area is. We're going to go straight to this Google Earth.  I want to kind of zoom all the way into that area and tell you a little bit.  We're learning about it right now.  This is Albert Pike Recreation -- not this one here, we're going to take it -- the Control Room is going to show you full.  
     There you go -- and we can zoom all of the way in -- this Albert Pike campground and I read about it, here's what we're learning.  This is actually a really popular area for tourists.  It has a lot of canoeing that takes place right there.  It's adjacent to the Little Missouri River, has a series of loops and also has the longest loop trail in all of Arkansas.  At this time of year what you find is more and more people turn out to do that kind of hiking.  This is actually very popular time for this campground, this hiking.  
     We've got a matter of seconds left, let's come back to my screen here.  I just want to show you the pictures so you see what it looks like up close when we're taking a look at these websites.  Let's go right to this one.  This is nice.  This shows some of the campgrounds that are in that general area.  We're not seeing exactly where it was washed out here, this was just up at a traveling website.
     Here's another one right here looking at Albert Pike.  This is the kind of things that draws people there.  I mean, it's obviously beautiful when it's safe.  And so, Tony, what we're looking for right now is the absolute latest information from authorities, what happened, what led to this and all efforts underway to find everyone there.  
     HARRIS:  You know, and this is a developing story.  I mean, this is a rescue operation that is underway right now.  And it is so remote, can't imagine we'll get pictures out of there any time soon, if at all.  It just makes you wonder what kind of dire situation is unfolding there as the search continues for the missing and to get the survivors out of there.  
     LEVS:  Well we do know and we will say there are authorities that are doing everything they can to get in there right now.  They know when people go hiking, and there's weather that things can happen.  So there are systems in place, we're just hoping they can get to them fast.  
     HARRIS:  OK, Josh, appreciate it, thank you.  
     Household incomes are going up and retail sales are going down. We're tracking your money.  You're in the CNN NEWSROOM.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     HARRIS:  I tell you, a serious questions hang over hallowed ground outside the U.S. Capitol.  An investigation reveals hundreds of graves at Arlington National Cemetery have been misidentified.  Can you imagine that?  A report from CNN's Chris Lawrence in the next hour of CNN NEWSROOM.
     Plus, the countdown is over, first games of the 2010 world cup are being played in South Africa.  All you hear are the sound of bees. I'm kidding.  Millions of people around the world are watching.  A report from our Zain Vergee next hour.  

	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired June 11, 2010 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     TONY HARRIS, CNN ANCHOR:  Americans are a little bit better off these days.  A new study from the federal reserve shows households net worth grew in the first quarter.  Felicia Taylor is at the New York Stock Exchange with details.  
     Add this up for me here.  We talk about home values, bank accounts, our investments.  What are we all worth here?  
     FELICIA TAYLOR, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  Well, actually, Tony, households were worth $54 trillion the first four months of the year.  That said, the same time last year compared to $48 trillion. That was the low point on the refrigerator recession.  Mostly we made our money in the stock market because it rose.  Then, we cut back on debt.  
     When you look at what Americans owe on mortgages, credit cards, auto loans that dropped to and has been falling for almost two years. For the most part, people really are trying to pay off their bills.  A hard lesson, obviously learned during the recession.  But we've got a long way to go to get back to where we were.  
     Home values are still very low.  The stock market obviously has taking a beating over the past few weeks, including today, which is down about 20 points on the Dow -- Tony.  
     TONY HARRIS, CNN ANCHOR:  OK.  And when you look at the fact that retail sales are down, it makes sense because we're keeping more of our money.  We're a little unsure right now, right?  
     TAYLOR:  We're not spending like we used to, which is good news, frankly, because we're using the money to pay off our bills.  We're saving a little bit more.  That's good news for Americans.  
     HARRIS:  Yes.  OK.  Felicia, appreciate it.  Thank you.  
     TAYLOR:  Yes.
     HARRIS:  Hello again, everyone.  I'm Tony Harris.  
     Top of the hour in the CNN NEWSROOM, where anything can happen. Here are some of the people behind today's top stories.  
     It is one of America's most hallowed sites.  We're talking about Arlington National Cemetery.  Now we are finding out some of the bodies there have been misplaced or buried in the wrong graves.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I don't know what it's going to take to get them fired over there.  What is it going to take for the Army to say, enough is enough?  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     HARRIS:  Yes.
     And straight from CSI, we are talking to those who are tracking oil on the beaches back to its source.  
     Let's get started now with our lead story.  
     In Arkansas, frantic searching for campers caught in a flash flood.  At least 12 people are now confirmed dead.  Other campers are still missing.  
     The water rushed through in the darkness after heavy rain overnight.  The area is in a national forest in a rugged section of western Arkansas.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     BILL SADLER, ARKANSAS STATE POLICE:  It flows through Pike and Montgomery Counties, Arkansas, a very rugged area, a very remote area. It crested this morning at about 5:30 local time.  
     At this time, we have confirmed through a search of at least 12 known to be dead.  We believe there are still some individuals trapped in that area.  
     The primary mission of the Arkansas State Police, working with local authorities right now, is to get the living out of that area and locate the dead.  This is an ongoing search operation at this hour.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     (WEATHER REPORT)   
     HARRIS:  Let's do this -- let's turn to your money right now.  
     It seems more of you are keeping your wallets shut these days. Retail sales fell last month for the first time in eight months, an unexpected drop.  
     Let's bring in CNN's Christine Romans.  She's in New York, of course, part of our Money team.  
     OK, Christine.  What explains this?  
     CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  Well, it's interesting, because this was a bit of a surprise, a 1.2 percent decline in retail sales.  This is how we send our money -- at the gas station, at the grocery store, at the mall.  
     This is when you break down the number of what it shows -- 1.7 percent decline in auto sales.  So people buying fewer cars.  
     Building materials, a big decline there, Tony, down 9.3 percent. That would suggest that once that taxpayer -- homebuyer tax credit expired, you had maybe a little bit of a pullback in the construction industry.  
     1.8 percent in department stores and 3.3 percent at the gas station.  That's because gas prices had been actually falling for more than 25 or 26 days now.  So that means you're spending less at the gas station.  
     That last number I think is good news for your wallet.  You're spending less because it costs less, not because you're pulling back.  
     But then, Tony, we had another number that showed consumer confidence was better than people thought.  So more evidence of this uneven recovery, right?  One number tells you people are pulling in, another one tells you, look, this number is highest since January 2008.  
     People feeling better about things for the best since 2008.  One explanation could be that people are feeling better, Tony, because they're spending less.  Think about that.  
     HARRIS:  Yes.  
     ROMANS:  There is this saying in the economy, in the markets, that when people feel better about things, they go out and they spend money, and that drives the economy.  Well, maybe people are feeling better because they're not spending as much, or maybe it's just these uneven numbers and this is what it's like when you're at this point in a recovery.  
     HARRIS:  OK.  Yes, fits and starts, fits and starts.
     ROMANS:  Right.
     HARRIS:  But you also reported in the past that we are saving more and we are paying down our debt.  Correct?  
     ROMANS:  We are.  We are.  
     We are paying down our debt.  The thing about this saving more that's going to be very -- we're going to have to really watch closely, we're not saving as much today as we were at the end of last year.  And that's pretty clear.  
     So we're really watch that one to see if we really keep saving four or five percent, or if we start to start feel a little more confident and we're not saving quite as much.  But when you pay down your debt and when you save a little more, it makes you feel better. And that is definitely true.  
     HARRIS:  Oh, yes.  All right.  
     Christine, appreciate it.  Have a great weekend.  Thank you.  
     ROMANS:  Sure.  Yes.  You, too.  Bye, Tony.  
     HARRIS:  Thank you.  
     President Obama is focused on jobs and the economy.  The president turning the spotlight to a small business agenda today.  
     He spoke in the Rose Garden just last hour, urging Congress to pass multiple small business initiatives, including a $30 billion lending program for community banks.  The president delivering his comments after meeting with owners of small businesses.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Small businesses will help lead this economic recovery.  And that's why we will continue to stand by them.  But, ensuring that small businesses can thrive is about more than just economic success, it's also about who we are as a people.  It's about a nation where anybody who's got a good idea and a willingness to work hard can succeed.  That's the central promise of America.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     HARRIS:  At the Vatican, a plea for forgiveness for the Roman Catholic Church.  Pope Benedict addressing thousands of priests from around the world.  He told them the church must promise to do everything it can to make sure priests never abuse children again.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     POPE BENEDICT XVI (through translator):  We, too, insistently beg forgiveness from God and from the persons involved, while promising to do everything possible to ensure that such abuse will never occur again, and that in admitting men to priestly ministry and in their information we'll do everything we can to weigh the authenticity of their vocation.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     HARRIS:  The president of the survivor network of those abused by priests says the pope's promises are too vague and won't change behavior.  
     Got to tell you, one of the biggest events of the world is happening right now.  There go the bees again.  It's the horns.  I know it's the horns.  
     The World Cup in South America.  Fans are in an absolute frenzy. It is the first time the soccer competition has been staged in Africa. 
     Game one ended just moments ago, a 1-1 tie between host team, South Africa, and Mexico.     And did you see the opening ceremony?  
     (MUSIC)
     HARRIS:  Hot diggity.  Shakira bringing it.  
     The Black Eyed Peas, Alicia Keys, Angelique Kidjo -- she's terrific -- also among the many stars kicking off the month-long football tournament.  Thirty-two teams vying for the cup.  
     Estimates on the amount of oil spewing into the Gulf double, and scientists say the number is likely to go up again.  
     First, though, our "Random Moment" in 90 seconds.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     HARRIS:  You know, today's "Random Moment" is proof the newsroom can be a real zoo.  And I'm not talking about this newsroom.  At least not this time.
     Check out this little guy.  Can you see a raccoon?  Yes, right there.
     It made its way into the newsroom.  This is WEYI, one of our affiliates in Michigan.  He scared the folks in the newsroom, that's for sure.
     You guys all right over there?  Is there a raccoon really in the newsroom?
     Folks are dropping stuff running around.  What's going on in here.
     But this raccoon did no harm.  He made it out of there safely.
     And t hat's our "Random Moment," a critter with a nose for the news.
     What's going on here?
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     HARRIS:  I've got to tell you, top supervisors at Arlington National Cemetery have been disciplined.  
     CNN Pentagon Correspondent Chris Lawrence reporting now on hundreds of soldiers' remains and gravesites that have been mishandled.
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     CHRIS LAWRENCE, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Missing burial records, unmarked graves, and burial urns put in a spillage pile.  That's the bottom line from the Army's seven-month investigation into mismanagement of Arlington National Cemetery.      JOHN MCHUGH, ARMY SECRETARY:  I deeply apologize to the families of the honored fallen resting in that hallowed ground who may now question the care afforded to their loved ones.
     LAWRENCE:  But no one's getting fired.  
     The Army placed the number two man, Thurman Higginbotham, on administrative leave.  Superintendent John Metzler was allowed to stay on in a lesser role.  He got reduced benefits and a letter of reprimand: "Given your decision to retire, I have elected not to initiate more severe disciplinary action," and, "this derogatory information will likely overshadow your 19 years of dedicated, faithful, and selfless service as superintendent."
     LT. GEN. STEVEN WHITCOMB:  Clearly, we found nothing that was intentional, criminal intent or intended sloppiness that caused this. Not that kind of that culpability of willful disregard for the responsibility.
     LAWRENCE:  The Army says there are about 211 graves in question, mostly older, but at least two recent casualties from the wars in Iraq or Afghanistan.  But its own report states investigators did not review some burial sites and that inaccurate maps are a, quote, "systemic problem."
     WHITCOMB:  I don't know that there could be many more, but there could, in fact, be more.
     LAWRENCE:  Most troubling, with more than 300,000 graves going back almost 150 years, the Army admits it can't guarantee all of them will be accounted for.
     MCHUGH:  I don't know if anyone can ever assure everyone that circumstances are perfect.
     LAWRENCE (on camera):  Now, the Army has appointed a new executive director of the cemetery, as well as an independent advisory board.  But even that's not good enough for some members of Congress, who have launched their own investigation into the cemetery's problems.
     Chris Lawrence, CNN, the Pentagon.
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     HARRIS:  An Army investigation says hundreds of remains at Arlington National Cemetery were misidentified or mislocated.  The identities of the veterans affected are not being released, but the mistake is personal for my next guest, Dorothy Nolte.  
     Her sister's grave was mishandled at Arlington National Cemetery. Master Sergeant Marion Gravey (ph) served at the U.S. military for 26 years.  Her burial urn was placed in an Arlington grave that was already occupied.  
     Dorothy joins me by phone from Rockville Center, New York.       Dorothy, thanks for your time.  
     My understanding is that you live in Tennessee, so you don't live in the Maryland/Virginia/D.C. area.  
     DOROTHY NOLTE, SISTER'S GRAVE MISHANDLED:  No, I don't.  I live in Tennessee.  
     HARRIS:  But I am curious, how many times the you believe you and other family members have visited the site that you thought was your sister's and your sister's alone?  
     NOLTE:  Well, we have not been there too often because there's so few of us.  And we are all living further and further away from the area.  So it's very difficult for us to get there.  
     HARRIS:  How did you figure out, learn that your sister's remains in an urn were placed in a plot that was already occupied?  
     NOLTE:  Well, she was buried in 2008.  And in October of 2009, I received a phone call asking whether I was aware that she had indeed been disinterred and reinterred in another site.  And I said, "No, I did not."  And I had no idea of anything connected to this.  So that's how it started.  
     HARRIS:  What happened when you called the military, when you called the Army to find out what was going on here?  
     NOLTE:  Well, I actually called the cemetery itself at some point to try to -- I told them I wanted to come and see them.  I was going to be in New York in November, and I would stop by sometime after my business was conducted and see them, and try to find out what this was all about.  
     We had never been notified that this mishap had occurred.  We were never given subsequent new grave site number identification information.  Nobody consulted us for permission.  And I do understand that the hierarchy there had stated that they had, indeed, done that, when, in fact, they had not.  
     HARRIS:  Let me just get your reaction to -- I'm going to read a piece from Chris Lawrence's story.  And I just want your reaction to this.  We're talking about missing burial records, unmarked graves -- obviously, this is the larger story here -- and burial urns put in what's described as a spillage pile at Arlington National Cemetery.  
     This is run by the military.  This is not an operation that has been outsourced to a private company, but a cemetery run by the military.  
     What are your thoughts?  Can you even believe this?  
     NOLTE:  Well, I find it very difficult to believe that it could be run so shoddily as to have these spillage piles that seem to be going unsupervised.       As I understand it, my own sister's burial card was missing, you know, when Mark Benjamin started investigating this story.  So -- and as I also understand it, they used a paper trail kind of way of following where these grave sites are and who is buried where.  And with all the high technology out there today, it's unfathomable that they cannot find a way to track this on a computer system.  
     HARRIS:  The military is apologizing.  Do you accept the apology? 
     NOLTE:  Yes, absolutely.  We found peace, Tony, because I went there.  I demanded to see the proof that my sister was, indeed, in the new site that she was laid to rest in.  And that was given to me the same day that I went there.  
     So, you know, I saw for myself that she is laid in a good place now.  So I had closure and I had peace.  So the right thing was done there.  And I just hope and pray that other families will get the same treatment to, you know, allay any fears that they have.  
     HARRIS:  Dorothy, that's a generous spirit on your part.  We appreciate your time.  And thanks for talking to us.  
     NOLTE:  Well, thank you.  
     HARRIS:  We are gathering new information in the terrible flash flooding in Arkansas overnight.  Twelve people dead, more missing. The search continues.  
     We're back in a moment.  
     You're in the CNN NEWSROOM.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     HARRIS:  A CNN oil alert right now on day 53 of the disaster. Experts have doubled their estimate on how much oil may be leaking from the ruptured well.  The latest estimate, from 20,000 to 40,000 barrels a day.  
     And on this day, a forum for victims along the Louisiana coast to vent their anger.  It is sponsored by the BP, the Coast Guard, the EPA, and state agencies.  
     I would like to be in that room, that's for sure.  
     Another bump in the road for the economy.  Retail sales last month dropped more than one percent from April.  That is the first decline in eight months.  
     A frantic search in Arkansas for campers who got caught in the flash flood.  At least a dozen people are confirmed dead and other campers are missing.  
     New estimates on how much oil may be gushing into the Gulf raise new questions for BP, and scientists say don't be surprised if the numbers go even higher.       The story now from CNN's Ed Lavandera.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     ED LAVANDERA, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Once again, the grim reality of this oil disaster keeps getting worse.  The flow rate team of independent scientists has doubled its estimate of how much oil is gushing into the Gulf of Mexico.  It could be as much as 40,000 barrels a day.  The new numbers have triggered another round of backlash towards BP.
     REP. EDWARD MARKEY (D), MASSACHUSETTS:  I think it's quite clear that BP has known that this is much more catastrophic right from the beginning.  They have been hiding it from the American people and from the federal government.  And now we know the full dimension of what is unfolding in the gulf.
     LAVANDERA:  BP said in a statement that it fully supported this effort, providing scientific data and high resolution video.  But one of the scientists says this latest estimate was reached before it had full access to the enhanced video and the latest estimate also doesn't take into account the increased flow after BP cut the riser from the blowout preventer a week ago or the amount of oil BP is capturing with the containment cap.  Still expect the numbers to go up more.
     DR. IRA LEIFER, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SANTA BARBARA ((via telephone):  There probably will be some slight revisions to this estimate, which is for the past in the next few days as it's finalized.
     LAVANDERA:  Congressional Ed Markey says the only way to get an accurate flow rate is to let the scientists inject a fluorescent dye into the well.  He's asked BP to give scientists the access.  BP hasn't responded.
     MARKEY:  My intent is to ensure that independent scientists can measure the accurate flow of oil into the gulf.  BP can do it voluntarily or they can do it involuntarily.
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     HARRIS:  Ed Lavandera joining us live from New Orleans now.  
     Ed, let's expand on this fluorescent dye testing.  And maybe you can tell us why that is so important.  
     LAVANDERA:  Well, what will happen here in the coming weeks, according to Representative Markey, is that the containment cap that is currently over the blowout preventer will be switched out for another one.  So he says there will be a window there that he thinks will be a valuable moment to let the scientists come in, pump this fluorescent dye into the blowout preventer, so it can come shooting out of it.  
     Based on those video images, the scientists say they can go in there and, based on what they see, that will help them get a better and clearer picture of just how much oil is flowing out of the well. As you heard, they've asked BP for this opportunity.  BP says that they will respond at some point, but they haven't yet.  
     HARRIS:  OK.
     Ed Lavandera for us in New Orleans.  
     Ed, appreciate it.  Thank you.  
     Remembering the victims of the Gulf rig explosion.  Relatives of the 11 men who died met with President Obama at the White House.
     Last hour, I spoke with Keith Jones, whose son Gordon was killed in the explosion.  I asked him about the meeting and what he thought about the moratorium on deepwater drilling.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     KEITH JONES, SON KILLED IN OIL RIG EXPLOSION:  I'm in favor of it.  I think most of the people in the room yesterday that may have been against it coming in were in favor of it when they left for the reasons that the president gave.  It's just not worth the risk right now until we can know what the problem was.  
     HARRIS:  Keith, what do you want to hear, if anything, from BP at this point?  
     JONES:  I have heard nothing from BP, not a word.  Nobody in our family has.  
     I don't care to hear from BP unless it's in the form of an acknowledgement of all the things that went wrong with this rig, all the bad decisions that were made that led to the death of 11 men.  If they want to come forth and explain to us what they did and, if possible, why they did it, I'd listen to that.  
     HARRIS:  Last question for you.  How did you come to terms -- I'm, for a moment, trying to put myself, as a father of a son, in your shoes.  How do you come to terms with losing a son in this way?  He was killed while on the job, doing his job.  
     JONES:  I don't come to terms with it.  I don't think anybody comes to terms with losing their son whether on the job or any other way.  
     I have been able to redirect my grief, I think, by working as hard as I've been working, along with my son Chris, to change the law so it will treat these people fairly.  Not generously, fairly.  And that may be -- if there are terms to which I may come, maybe that's it.   
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     HARRIS:  Boy, what a family.  
     The oil disaster in the Gulf and the toll it is taking on the fishing industry.  Minority fishermen are among those suffering.  We will talk with our guest about that in your "What Matters?" segment.  
     Byron (ph), good to see you.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     HARRIS:  It is the CSI lab of the Gulf Coast oil disaster. Scientists analyzing samples of oil and tar balls to confirm their source.  
     Pentagon Correspondent Barbara Starr takes us inside the investigation.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     BARBARA STARR, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Hundreds of miles away from the deepwater Gulf oil spill, in Connecticut, a detective story is unfolding at the Coast Guard's only forensic laboratory.  
     We start behind this heavily locked door.  
     DR. WAYNE GRONLUND, COAST GUARD MARINE SAFETY LAB:  It is evidence, and so it's secure.  That's why you were signed in before you came into the space.  
     STARR:  Years of oil spill samples are here, preserved at a chilly 38 degrees.  Even remnants of the 1989 Exxon Valdez disaster.  
     (on camera):  I am immediately overwhelmed with the smell of the oil.  
     GRONLUND:  There are 20,000 oil samples in there.  
     STARR (voice-over):  But all attention is on this -- oil from the Gulf of Mexico.  
     GRONLUND:  This black container is actually some samples that we just got from the BP folks that they took on site at the spill source. 
     STARR:  The lab is chemically analyzing this oil and matching it against other oil turning up on Gulf Coast beaches.  
     There's just one problem.  There is oil; not from the BP catastrophe.  
     GRONLUND:  We've done over 75 tar balls from Florida and Texas. So far, none of which match.  
     STARR:  The lab workload has tripled to cope with the crisis.  
     (on camera):  Why are you, as you say, fingerprinting the oil to determine if it's from the deepwater spill?  
     GRONLUND:  Ultimately, there has to be a liability established for the cleanup and any penalties assessed.  And so we are identifying the oil as it makes impact with the shoreline to see if, in fact, it does match the Deepwater Horizon or not. 
     STARR (voice-over): New tar balls and other samples arrive almost daily. 
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The newest samples we have, these are actually some bird feathers, pelican feathers that were collected in the Corpus Christi, Texas, area. 
     STARR (on camera): You say that you have analyzed a number of tar balls from Florida beaches.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
     STARR: That you chemically analyze it and it does not match Deepwater? 
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Correct.
     STARR: What's going on? 
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There's another source. There is some other spill occurring in the Florida area, possibly a passing ship. Our analysis indicates that it's heavy fuel oil. It is not crude oil. And it does not match the Deepwater Horizon. 
     STARR: Is it the case that freighters, cargo ships take advantage of an environmental situation and possibly - 
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It would seem so. We -- I'm not sure we can prove that, but it would seem so. 
     STARR: What strikes me is you're the CSI of oil spills. 
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, we are. That's what we do. 
     STARR: Coast Guard forensic experts who work here say they will be analyzing oil samples from the Gulf for months to come. 
     Barbara Starr. 
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     STARR: Let me add in a couple of thoughts, Tony. 
     What the Coast Guard thinks might be going on is some ships are taking advantage of the crisis in the Gulf, going out there in the middle of the night and pumping out their bilge tanks. Why are they doing this? Well, the Coast Guard's seen it before. Ship owners go out there to do it to save time and money. They don't then have to come into port and go through this very lengthy process of cleaning out their tanks according to environmental laws. They go out there. 
     Coast Guard investigators are watching this very carefully. They are testing all the oil samples they get. And they say they are going to try as hard as they can to hunt down whatever ship owners might be responsible for this.      HARRIS: Let's get some fines going on here. All right, Barbara Starr at the Pentagon for us. 
     Barbara, good to see you. Have a great weekend. Thank you. 
     A frantic search in Arkansas right now for campers who got caught in a flash flood. At least a dozen people are confirmed dead. We have been following this closely over the last two hours here in the CNN NEWSROOM. Other campers are missing. Earlier I spoke with Bill Sadler with the Arkansas State Police about the search. 
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     HARRIS: Have you been able to locate survivors at this point? 
     BILL SADLER, ARKANSAS STATE POLICE (via telephone): There have been survivors located in this area. There are multiple camps along this stretch of the river. It's a very, as I said, rugged area, so it's going to be a prolonged operation. Water is beginning to recede in the area, but it's going to be later today before we're confident that we've gotten the living out of that area. 
     HARRIS: My goodness. And do you have -- maybe you can just describe the kind of resources, the kinds of material that will be necessary for you to make these rescues. What are you going to need? 
     SADLER: At this moment we have two helicopters in the area that are working to locate and assist in extrication of the living and pinpoint where bodies may be located. There's a temporary morgue that has been set up. And local authorities are providing volunteers to -- that are familiar with the area to move in and assist in the search. 
     HARRIS: So you're talking about helicopter rescues. That's how rugged this area is. 
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     HARRIS: Oh, boy.
     All right, let's get to Josh Levs now. He's got more on this horrible story still developing right now. 
     Josh.
     JOSH LEVS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It's awful, Tony, yes.
     One thing I can do right here on the screen, I'll show you, is you can get a sense of how rugged the area really is. I'm going to start off pretty far back. And as you zoom in to where that little red dot, where it's right over there, you can see how mountainous it gets. And what we're learning about this area is that it actually is really popular for campers. 
     Let's do this. We have a Google Earth video. We're going to go to that. And I'll talk to you about this.     This is an area really popular for canoers, for people who do a lot of hiking. And this time of year, especially before the worst heat of the summer kicks in, you do find that it's especially popular, which means there could be large numbers of people right there. 
     And I was looking into a little bit of this. It's designed with these four loops. This is the Albert Pike Campground. A recreation area for those of you who may have never been in that area. There's a trail there that is the longest loop trail in all of Arkansas at 26.8 miles. It combines several different trails. And we're talking about adjacent to the little Missouri River. If you've ever been in that area. 
     And there are some photos online I can show you that just give you a sense of why it's so popular. You know, it's beautiful. It's in the Washington National Forest area. I think we have some natural waterfall shots we can get to over - can you get way over here? I mean this is the kind of thing that you see when you look through what some of these pictures are like throughout this area. 
     HARRIS: Oh, goodness, looks nice.
     LEVS: You can get a sense of why so many people want to be in this area. This is a little picture of a campground we found at one of these Web sites, fed.us, that talks about these sites. 
     So, look, we know that there's a lot of people who are out there. But I also want to emphasize that any time you have a campground, a recreation area in which you know people are camping, city, state, feds have authorities who oversee these things and do have emergency operations in place. So what we're all watching right now is these operations going into effect in this relatively remote area, even though it's popular for campers. It's not like it's at some big city. So we want to see, obviously, them get to as many people as possible and find as many people as possible in the shortest time. 
     HARRIS: OK. We'll keep everyone posted on this story. 
     Josh, thank you. 
     LEVS: You got it. 
     HARRIS: The oil disaster is taking a toll on the fishing industry to be sure. Minority fishermen are among those suffering and that's the focus of today's "What Matter's" segment. Byron Encalade is president of the Louisiana Oystermen Association. He joins us from Metairie, Louisiana. 
     Byron, good to see you.
     First of all, look, this is a terrible tragedy for everyone who makes a living down there in that Gulf coast region. Tell me what it is you think should be happening now in terms of the government response to help the members of your association. 
     BYRON ENCALADE, PRESIDENT, LOUISIANA OYSTERMEN ASSOCIATION: Well, Tony, right now we have some social issues. And our main problem now is this claim process. 
     HARRIS: Yes.
     ENCALADE: BP is just not getting the funds to these families in a timely order to take care of themselves. You know, and, of course, we have made some progress. A lot of it came late. Of course you know our parish president has been arguing for the berms to be put out there. Finally we got it. A little late, but better late than never. And these things we've been asking for from day one. 
     HARRIS: Yes.
     ENCALADE: So -
     HARRIS: Yes. So May 1st is usually the start, am I correct here, of the busy season? Is that correct? 
     ENCALADE: That's right. That's right, Tony. We had a lot of fishermen -- and this is one of our biggest problems - we've invested a lot of money in getting our boats ready. And in the oyster situation, we had a little problem prior to that where we had so close part of our fishing rounds, especially on that east bank of the river. So we went through 30 days prior to the oil spill not working. And then when we finally get ready to go to work, then the spill stopped us again. So, you know, we had all of this money tied in think that we were going to recapture these funds to get these bills paid and it just didn't happen. 
     And then now BP is tangling with this, you know, claims process that's not working. We've submitted our ideas to BP over and over. I've testified before the congressional judiciary committee. And BP seems to be not acceptive to anything but the same old process. And that's why I've made these comments. We just can't afford another road home. We can't take that anymore. 
     HARRIS: Yes. Is there something the government can do that it isn't doing now that you think would be helpful here? 
     ENCALADE: Well, I mean, due to the laws -- I'm not an attorney, but due to the laws the way they were explained to me, it's hard for the government to step over the law and just completely take control. Now, I think maybe Congress, they're looking at all of this and maybe we have to get the laws changed on the books to make sure that we -- the federal government can step in and do the things that they need to do. 
     HARRIS: OK. So you've got a slow claims process. What do you do to survive financially? I mean do you go work for BP to clean up this mess? 
     ENCALADE: Well, Tony, some of the boats -- we are trying to get them on, on the east bank of the river. In our small fishing community, we managed to get three boats on. And we're trying to get some more. Hopefully something will happen with that. And that's the only course of action is to hopefully get some boats on working where we could get some funds coming into our community.      And, of course, we live in a village-type mentality that we all support each other, you know? And, you know, if I get a boat on that, that means two other families are going to survive, you know. So, you know, we don't hire people outside our community because that's the way we've been working all our lives. 
     HARRIS: All right. We're going to check in with you from time to time to see how things are going, if the situation is improving, particularly on the claims side. 
     Byron, good to see you. Thanks for your time.
     ENCALADE: Thank you, Tony. 
     HARRIS: Yes, my pleasure. 
     To read more stories that matter to all of us, just pick up the latest issue of "Essence" magazine on newsstands right now. 
     O.J. Simpson -- yes, O.J. Simpson, returns to court today trying to get his sports memorabilia armed robbery conviction overturned. 
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     HARRIS: It is a story we've been following for you here in the CNN NEWSROOM. A frantic search in Arkansas for campers who got caught in a flash flood. At least a dozen people are confirmed dead and other campers are missing. On the line with us right now is the governor of Arkansas, Mike Beebe.
     Mr. Governor, if you would, can you give us an update on where things stand in the search and rescue operation. 
     GOV. MIKE BEEBE, ARKANSAS (via telephone): Well, we have a number of state and local officials that are engaged in the search and rescue operation. Preliminary reports are that at about 5:30 last evening, the Little Missouri River, which is along this campground, was at about three and a half feet. And within 12 hours, by 5:00 or 5:30 this morning, it was at 20 feet. So it was a very rapid flash flood that inundated that area. 
     This is a U.S. forest service campground. It's an unmanned campground in terms of being a campground with all the amenities. It's relatively rural. And it's along the bank of the Little Missouri River. And as a result of that, at this point we don't have a registration for the number of people that were out there, although there's reports (ph) from the Red Cross that there may have been as many as 300 people there. 
     Obviously they're in the process of trying to determine if there's other people missing and they're in heavy search and rescue mode now with National Guard, state police, park and tourism people, as well as law enforcement, emergency management personnel. 
     HARRIS: Is there an information -- boy, that's a lot of people. As many as 300 people visiting that -     BEEBE: That's a preliminary - that's a preliminary but unconfirmed report from the Red Cross. So I'll -- 
     HARRIS: Sure. 
     BEEBE: Put a caveat out there that so far that's preliminary and unconfirmed. But, you know, it highlights the urgency, I think, of the search and rescue if there were potentially that many people in this campground area. 
     HARRIS: OK. Governor Beebe, is there an information center at this time set up where families can get some updated information on the search and rescue effort? 
     BEEBE: Well, the - yes. The Arkansas Department of Emergency Management coordinates search and rescue activities. And certainly they can be contacted for any information. But the area is pretty remote in terms of - and that's why a lot of people go there. And in terms of being able to have any cell phone service actually on-site, that's really spotty because of the extreme rural nature of the area. 
     HARRIS: Well, how will this be efforted? I mean how will this search and rescue operation take place? Are we talking about principally from the air with helicopters? 
     BEEBE: No, no, it's everything. There are helicopters, but there are mounted sheriff's deputies in some of the terrain with horses. Obviously there are -- there's heavy equipment. There's police cars. There's all sorts of trucks and four-wheel drive vehicles that are manned by the various state and local agencies that are out there. There are people on foot. So in terms of how it's being coordinated, it's virtually every aspect of human endeavor, from the area or from the ground, that can be manned at this juncture. 
     HARRIS: Governor Beebe, how about the National Guard? 
     BEEBE: Yes, the National Guard's on site. We actually have -- that's what part of the helicopter assistance is from the National Guard. On the ground right now it's primarily parks and tourism personnel and it's primarily law enforcement personnel. We have National Guard people on stand-by to the extent that they are need. 
     HARRIS: You mentioned this is an unmanned campground area. Has this always been an unmanned area or recently unmanned because of budget issues or whatever? 
     BEEBE: No, to my knowledge this is a federal area. This is a U.S. forest service area. This is not a state area. So my understanding is that it's been this type of campground, I guess, since its inception. 
     HARRIS: OK. And, once again, just for maybe family members who might be watching us right now, if they want information, just the latest information, where would you direct them? And if you don't have the number, if you tell us where people can get information, we'll find that information on a phone number and pass that along.      BEEBE: Well, let me see if I can get you that phone number. It's Arkansas Department of Emergency Management. And I don't have that phone number immediately with me. 
     HARRIS: Office of Emergency Management. 
     BEEBE: The Arkansas Department of Emergency Management. 
     HARRIS: We can get that. Governor Beebe, we appreciate your time. 
     BEEBE: Absolutely. 
     HARRIS: OK, thank you. 
     Let's take a break. You're in the CNN NEWSROOM.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     HARRIS: Host country South Africa ties Mexico in the World Cup open again today. And soccer fans around the globe have World Cup fever. Our Zain Verjee, she's in London for us.
     Zain, good to see you. Describe what it's been like for your today all caught up in the football fever. 
     ZAIN VERJEE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Football. I'm glad you said that, Tony. Not soccer for the next four weeks. It has actually been amazing. This is bigger than the Super Bowl. This is actually bigger than the Olympics because you've got one billion people around the world that are going to be following every single player, every single match, and the twists and turns of football World Cup 2010 in South Africa. 
     You know, Tony, one of the best things about this World Cup is that it's for the very first time in Africa. You see on TV pictures of poverty, of conflict, of disease, of HIV/AIDS. Well, this World Cup in Africa, you're going to see culture, diversity, richness, and the flamboyance and fun of the African culture. 
     I spoke to one woman who crisscrossed the whole country and talked to kids. Listen to what she says.
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     VERJEE (voice-over): Alethea Gold has crisscrossed South Africa ahead of the football World Cup. The children stylist and author says the kids are all football mad. 
     ALETHEA GOLD, CHILDREN'S FASHION STYLIST: There is not a child that I didn't come across that wasn't excited, wasn't overwhelmed for the World Cup. It means so much to them. They all know every player. They know the captain. Their dream is to be able to watch every game. 
     VERJEE: Together with photographer Luca Zoran (ph), she wants to show the world South Africa through its children. These kids are off the streets, lured by a dream bag.      GOLD: In this dream bag is a pair of soccer boots and football and an outfit. And these kids then play football all day. 
     VERJEE: They share their dreams at school. 
     GOLD: Some of the kids' biggest wish is to meet Obama. Some of the kids just wish that someone would buy a fence for the school so the goats don't pop in. And one of the kids said that he likes his teacher because she never turns up late for school. 
     They played huge trombones and drums. And the girls were dancing. And it was in a field. And the sand was coming up. And these kids were oblivious to the dust and everything around them. 
     VERJEE: Alethea tells me she's raising money for a Nelson Mandela backed charity, MaAfrika Tikkun, to help get kids to play sport. And who knows, you could be looking at Africa's next Didier Drogba.
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     VERJEE: So, Tony, this is a really big deal for Africa. But it's also a big deal for the United States because, you know, they really have something to prove. Much of the world sees them really as rookies in football. But they are respected. They are playing England, who actually invented football, tomorrow. And the question is, how well are they going to do? Because it's a tough team. There are two weaknesses that they can exploit. Basically the English team kind of take a bit of time to warm up during World Cup tournaments. Also, they tend to get a little temperamental, Tony. They get petulant. And the U.S. team can really try and capitalize on that.
     Tony.
     HARRIS: Oh, just have the sav ready for the Brits after the butt kicking they take tomorrow.
     Zain, good to see you. 
     VERJEE: I hope so. 
     HARRIS: You know so. 
     VERJEE: You too, Tony.
     HARRIS: We're back in a moment. You're in the CNN NEWSROOM.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     HARRIS: In Arkansas, frantic searching for campers caught in a flash flood. At least 12 people are now confirmed dead. Other campers are still missing. And the water rushed in, in darkness after heavy rain overnight. The area is in a national forest. It is in a rugged section of western Arkansas. 
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)     BILL SADLER, ARKANSAS STATE POLICE (via telephone): It flows through Pike and Montgomery Counties, Arkansas. A very rugged area. A very remote area. It crested this morning at about 5:30 local time. At this time, we have confirmed through a search of at least 12 known to be dead. We believe there are still some individuals trapped in that area. The primary mission will be Arkansas State Police working with local authorities right now is to get the living out of that area and locate the dead. This is an ongoing search operation at this hour. 
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     HARRIS: All right. And our severe weather expert, Chad Myers, with me now. 
     And, Chad, if you would, just put us on the ground out there. 
     CHAD MYERS, AMS METEOROLOGIST: All right, we'll start out big and then we'll get smaller and smaller and smaller. We're talking about Arkansas. We're talking about right there. We're talking about the Ouachita National Forest, which is Mena (ph), Telamena (ph). Mena got hit by a tornado last year.
     HARRIS: Yes.
     MYERS: Just got whacked. So this area here in Arkansas.
     Now I'll start to drill down, get you a little bit smaller. And this is going to be a very colorful map, but I'm going to tell you what it means because we're talking about Little Rock right there. That's the town of Little Rock. That's where the radar site is. 
     But back out her in this purple, every -- this light purple, that's all seven inches of rainfall or more that happened in the past 48 hours. This purple area here where the flooding really literally was, that's nine inches of rainfall in 48 hours. You can't -- no area can handle that. 
     So here's Little Rock, Hot Springs. We're talking right through here. Here's Mena and then Hot Springs itself. So let me get rid of all this stuff and I'm going to take you to Google Earth because I need to show you the topography. 
     HARRIS: Yes.
     MYERS: If this rain happened in Oklahoma, should we get a flash flood that it doesn't funnel like it did here. We're talking to Governor Beebe about half an hour ago. He said this river went from three feet deep to 17 feet deep in less than 24 hours. And, in some spots, 20 feet deep because of the way -
     HARRIS: And it's got to go somewhere.
     MYERS: Because of the way the water comes in. It's literally the way the water rushes in. It rushes down the mountains here, down this pike here and then down through here. And then everybody that camps wants to camp near the water. Why would you not? It's three feet deep. It's tranquil. It's lovely. You can hear the water rushing. Well, that was the problem. As it was coming through here, the water filled in this valley and those people were not prepared. At 1:00, 2:00 in the morning, there's no -- and it's unmanned. There wasn't a ranger there to run through there and say, get out, get out, get out. You didn't have a weather radio - and how many people take one with them?
     HARRIS: That's right.
     MYERS: You are in trouble. And I guess the story of that is, take a weather radio if you go camping.
     HARRIS: Yes.
     MYERS: Because the warning was out there.
     HARRIS: It was. Yes.
     MYERS: Yes.
     HARRIS: More on this in just minutes. CNN NEWSROOM continues right now with Ali Velshi from New York City.

	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired June 11, 2010 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ALI VELSHI, CNN ANCHOR:  Guys, thank you very much.  Here's what I've got on the "Rundown," here's where we're going today.  
     The Gulf of Mexico, Day 53 looks like the oil disaster is bigger than we thought it was.  As for the tar balls washing up on the beaches, you might be surprised were some of them are coming from.  
     OK, Port-au-Prince, Haiti, we're going to take you there.  More than a million people in that quake-ravaged city are still homeless. And that makes what I'm about to say even more unbelievable.  One of the more state-of-the-art tent cities in Port-au-Prince is empty. It's been empty for weeks.  We're going to find out why.  
     In Johannesburg, South Africa, imagine a month's worth of Super Bowl.  That's what we're in for with today's kickoff of the world's biggest sporting event.  Veteran World Cup goalie Tony Meola is my co- anchor today.  He'll be joining me to tell us what you've got to look forward to.  
     We've got a lot to cover.  We want to begin with breaking news that Tony was just talking about with Chad.  At least a dozen people have been killed in western Arkansas after flash floods swamped a campground.  Right now an urgent search is going on for people still stranded in the rugged area.  
     Chad Myers is tracking it all in the CNN Weather Center.  He was just describing to Tony what was going on.  Chad, just rewind a little bit because in case somebody didn't get.  Tell me what happened here.  
     CHAD MEYERS, AMS METEOROLOGIST:  The storms parked themselves over one area and it's called a training effect.  When you talk about a train, let's just get rid of this for a second because I can do this just for a second.  A train has one car.  And then in front of it is another car and in front of it another car and there are tracks that those trains go over.  Right?
     That's the train -- a choo-choo train.  Well, when storms do the same thing and literally they trans -- they go over the same area because there's almost like on a track, then you all of a sudden have excessive rainfall amounts.  That's what we had last night.  
     Here's Little Rock, here's where the flooding is right through here.  This is a big place for a rafting area.  I'm assuming that a lot of the people that were camping literally were rafters.  The topography of the Ouachita National Forest, water runs down the hill here, runs down the hill here, and it ran into the valleys.  
     It ran into basically the campground because you don't camp on the higher elevations.  You camp very close to the water.  
     VELSHI:  Right.
     MEYERS:  You listen to the water rush. 
     VELSHI:  Sure.
     MEYERS:  But the water went from three feet deep to 20 feet deep in less than 12 hours.  
     VELSHI:  Wow.  
     MEYERS:  At night.  
     VELSHI:  The search continues over there, and we are staying on top of this.  Chad will bring us up to date with more and we will as well.  Thank you, Chad.
     MEYERS:  Sure.
     VELSHI:  We're following that story.  The other one we're following, obviously Day 53 in the Gulf of Mexico.  The oil continues to flow into the Gulf.  Let's just talk a little about this, bring you up to speed.
     So far BP says it's spent $1.43 billion on the clean-up.  The U.S. has spent $140 million.  But as you know the U.S. plans to continue to bill BP for its expenses.  Let's talk about how much oil is flowing.  This is a big development in the last 48 hours or so.
     That's the camera under the water.  Now, before this new cap was put on on June 3rd, the flow prior to that was believed to be 20,000 barrels today at the low end to maybe as high as 40,000 barrels a day. These are the latest figures from a federal scientist.  Now, on June 10th, which was yesterday, 15,400 barrels were collected.  
     You can see how that's ramped up since June 4th.  Every day a little bit more oil has been collected.  Although, it's down since June 9th, 15,800.  Scientists want BP to allow more accurate flow measurement equipment underground to the leak site when the company changes the containment cap or the top hat that it's got on top of that oil well.  
     They're going to change it to one that is apparently more effective and better sealed, but they want better measurement equipment.  Current estimates are made by visually studying those videos that we were just showing you from the site and the live cameras.  
     Now, BP is also testing a second rig-based system that will catch all the oil.  They're going to test it or catch more of the oil. They're going to try and test it this weekend.  This isn't brand new, just that it's being tested this weekend.  That's the aerial shot of all the ships that are above that well conducting missions to try and stop it.  
     This extra rig would catch an extra $10,000 a day, allowing BP to recover about 28,000 barrels a day which would get close to the high estimate of how much oil is flowing out of that well.
     Now, on the part of what people are doing, advocacy groups are setting up a nationwide vigil this month, and we will bring you up to speed with exactly where those vigils are going to be held as soon as we get that information.  
     Now, you also know that while we can't cap this well immediately, the result, the end result is going to be relief wells that are dug around it.  So the well is the one in the middle.  The relief wells are the ones on the side.  They're digging two of them.  The one that is furthest ahead is the one on the right at 13,978 feet.  
     There's another one, a second one being drilled on the -- the one on the left of your screen -- it's at 8,576 feet.  Now, the most important development in the last 48 hours has been the new numbers of how much oil is actually flowing out.  Actually it's not even 48 hours.  Last 24 hours.  
     Josh Levs has been study that fairly closely.  What has happened? We have new estimates, Josh, of how much oil is coming out of that well and they are substantially higher than the previous estimates we had.  
     JOSH LEVS, CNN CONTRIBUTOR:  Yes, I mean, look, throughout this entire crisis one thing we have learned is that any time we hear the numbers, we have to take them with a truck full of salt because there are so many variables all the time, so many things that are unknown.  
     Let's go straight to the current pictures right now of what's going on underwater, and I will use that to explain what's been going on.  Folks, you know because I've been right here showing you every day this smoke that's coming forward from that area where the blowout preventer is.  Not everything is able to get inside but basically a tube that's going up to the ship.  
     Well, what has been happening throughout this crisis is that some experts have been looking at them and trying to figure out how much oil it is.  You might think, well look at it and figure out how much oil it is.  But you can't because what happens is when oil leaks out, it instantly mixes with water and chemicals and you get black smoke. But you can't be sure how much of it is oil. 
     What has happened is that there is a team that is tasked with really trying to break this down everywhere they can, and the new numbers they have are striking.  They're now saying up to 40,000 barrels.  
     That's a 1.7 million gallons a day may have escaped for weeks. And as Ali is saying, that's twice what was currently believed, twice an estimate earlier on which means the disaster could be even worse.  
     Now this is the high resolution video.  You know what, we've been talking about this for a few days.  A high resolution video has just been made available.  This should help scientists determine how much oil it is.  But guess what?  These latest numbers are not even based on this yet.  So we are expecting even more numbers to come out as scientists look at this high resolution video.  Ali, that's what's next in this all of this crisis.  
     VELSHI:  All right, Josh, thanks for staying on top of that for us.  That's a big difference in the amount of oil that we thought was going into the Gulf of Mexico.  We will keep on that with you.  Josh Levs helping us break that down.  
     Now, those tar balls that are washing up on the Gulf coast, everybody has been reporting on the tar balls.  If you think they're all from BP you're in for a surprise.  We're going to do a little bit of "CSI" on those tar balls when we come back.    
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     VELSHI:  So you know all those tar balls that are washing up on the Gulf coast beaches.  They're not all from the BP oil disaster. This is something Chad was telling us right from the beginning, that tar balls are relatively common.  But it took "CSI"-type work to figure that out.  Our own Barbara Starr has a look at inside a Connecticut Coast Guard lab.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     BARBARA STARR, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Hundreds of miles away from the deepwater Gulf oil spill in Connecticut, a detective story is unfolding at the Coast Guard's only forensic laboratory.  We start behind this heavily locked door.  
     WAYNE GRONLUND, MANAGER, COAST GUARD MARINE SAFETY LAB:  It is evidence, it's secured, that's why you were signed in before you came into this space.  
     STARR:  Years of oil spill samples are here preserved at a chilly 38 degrees.  Even remnants of the 1989 "Exxon Valdez" disaster.  I am immediately overwhelmed with the smell of the oil.  
     GRONLUND:  There are 20,000 oil samples in there.  
     STARR:  But all attention is on this, oil from the Gulf of Mexico.  
     GRONLUND:  This black container is actually some samples that we just got from the BP folks that they took on-site at the spill source. 
     STARR:  The lab is chemically analyzing the oil and matching it against other oil turned up on Gulf coast beaches.  There's just one problem, there is oil not from the BP a catastrophe.  
     GRONLUND:  We've done over 75 tar balls from Florida and Texas. So far none of which match.  
     STARR:  The lab workload has tripled to cope with the crisis. Why are you, as you say, fingerprinting the oil to determine if it's from the deepwater spill?  
     GRONLUND:  Ultimately there has to be a liability established for the cleanup and any penalties assessed.  And so we are identifying the oil as it makes impact with the shoreline to see if in fact it does match the Deepwater Horizon or not.  
     STARR:  New tar balls and other samples arrive almost daily.  
     GRONLUND:  The newest samples we have.  These are actually some bird feathers, pelican feathers that were collected in the Corpus Christie, Texas area.  
     STARR:  You say that you have analyzed a number of tar balls from Florida beaches that you chemically analyzed it and it does not match Deepwater?
     GRONLUND:  Correct.
     STARR:  What's going on?  
     GRONLUND:  There was another source.  There is some other spill occurring in the Florida area, possibly a passing ship.  Or analysis indicates that it's heavy fuel oil.  It is not crude oil, and it does not match the Deepwater Horizon.  
     STARR:  Is it the case that freighters, cargo ships, take advantage of an environmental situation and -- it.  
     GRONLUND:  Would seem so.  I'm not sure we can prove that but it would seem so.  
     STARR:  What strikes me is you're the CSI of oil spills.  
     GRONLUND:  Yes, we are.  That's what we do.  
     STARR:  Coast Guard forensic experts who work here say they will be analyzing oil samples from the Gulf for months to come.  Barbara Starr, CNN, New London, Connecticut. 
     (END VIDEO CLIP)  
     VELSHI:  One of the other stories we're following for you now is breaking news out of Arkansas where at least 12 people have died on a flash flood of a campground.  I want to go to right to our affiliate reporter, KARK Reporter Courtney Collins who is on the ground near Glenwood, Arkansas.  It's about as close as you can get and still get cell service.  This is a remote area that doesn't have cell service.  
     Courtney, are you there?  
     COURTNEY COLLINS, KARK REPORTER (via telephone):  Hey, I'm here. How are you?  
     VELSHI:  Good.  Bring us up to speed with what's going on.  What we know at least 12 people have been killed.  What else do we know about this?  
     COLLINS:  Well, I actually just got finished up with a press conference with state police on the ground at the staging area near the flooded campsite.  He actually confirmed 14 people have been killed, and he also said children are absolutely among the dead, which is just devastating to hear.  
     Also they're far from finished with this operation.  Many people have been injured and there are many people still missing.  So at this point they have a major rescue and recovery effort going on.  We know that the aerovac team is up in the in the air.  They told us they're going to be looking 10 to 15 miles south of the flooded campground and also another 10 miles north just to make sure that no bodies have washed that far downstream or upstream.  
     Also, they said people could be stranded in trees if they did manage to pull themselves out of the Little Missouri River.  What basically happened is just really simple.  There was too much rain that fell in too short of time into too small an area, and it all rushed to the river which we're told rose about 10 feet in 40 minutes. 
     So people in tents, people in cabins, people in campers were all in essence just washed away.  We know cabins were actually taken off their foundation.  So it was that severe.  
     VELSHI:  Courtney, tell me this.  The 14 people dead that you just heard, where was that from, who was the source on that?  
     COLLINS:  That's from the state police on the ground at the staging area.  
     VELSHI:  OK.  How many people do they -- do they have any sense of how many people are missing?  Was there any accounting of who was that area?  
     COLLINS:  They don't have a number.  They said it's a very popular camping area and there's many different quadrants, so they don't have a number of how many could be missing.  The only absolute was the number of confirmed dead.  And the man I talked to with aerovac says he thinks at least ten have been injured and taken to the hospital, but he expects many more will follow.  
     One thing interesting to note, he was up in the air in the chopper and remarked that it looked like the river was moving at about a 100 miles an hour.
     VELSHI:  Wow.
     COLLINS:  So it's just incredible how fast the rain came in and just took over.  
     VELSHI:  All right, Courtney Collins from KARK, thank you for that.  We'll keep in touch with you.  Courtney is nearby the scene where this flash flooding took place.  We have 12 confirmed dead. Courtney is saying that state police is now saying 14 people dead.       All right, straight ahead, we are covering the world's biggest sporting event kicked off in South Africa today.  That means World Cup fever might have a lot of people calling out sick believe it or not. We'll kick off that conversation after the break.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     VELSHI:  Okay.  This is one of the best parts about being here in New York.  I'm right next to Christine.  I can touch her.  My co- anchor on "Your $$$." Hey, you can't but have World Cup fever.  I know there's a lot of money matters going on in the world --
     CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  Right.
     VELSHI:  -- but this is actually a big money thing.  This is the most watched sporting event -- and collection of sporting events --
     ROMANS:  Oh yes.
     VELSHI:  -- in the world by a lot.  
     ROMANS:  And you're going to have bars all over this country opening up early.  So I think you're going to see some economic activity on that front.  
     VELSHI:  Right.
     ROMANS:  But in terms of -- you know, all around the world, we did all the research, Ali.  All around the countries are trying to figure out how much lost productivity they're going to have at the workplace because of the World Cup, and there's no such estimate for the United States because we just don't watch it like other people watch it.
     VELSHI:  This is huge, right?  Some 715 million people.  
     ROMANS:  -- Million viewers in 2006.
     VELSHI:  In 2006 watched the final.  
     ROMANS:  Right.  
     VELSHI:  Right?  
     ROMANS:  How many Americans?  17 million.  
     VELSHI:  715 million in the world, 10 percent? 75 million?
     ROMANS:  17 million.  
     VELSHI:  17 million?
     ROMANS:  I'm pretty sure unless I got that backwards.  
     VELSHI:  No, I think that's about -- yes.  Wow.      ROMANS:  It wasn't as many.  It really wasn't as many.  Now, listen.  One of the things about productivity is when you talk about -- the first March Madness.  This is the number one productivity suck at the workplace, March Madness, and this goes on over a long period of time, right?  Then comes Fantasy Football.  This one kills me.
     VELSHI:  Because it's not even really a sport.
     ROMANS:  It's not even real.  I mean I'm going to get all these terrible e-mails from people.
     VELSHI:  Is says fantasy in it.
     ROMANS:  I mean it's not even a real like sporting event that people are looking around watching it.  It's fantasy football.  Then the Super Bowl, but the Super Bowl is on a Sunday.  
     VELSHI:  Right, so that's not a productivity suck but the day after is.
     ROMANS:  The day after, because people are apparently still so excited from the Super Bowl or hung over from the Super Bowl.  And then comes World Cup Soccer in this country.  So the rest of the world is sort of soccer mad or football mad, I guess.  
     VELSHI:  Football mad, yes.
     ROMANS:  In the United States you've got a few other things that top the list before it.
     VELSHI:  But you forwarded me in the early hours this morning -- 
     ROMANS:  I know.
     VELSHI:  -- two reports from major investment banks --
     ROMANS:  Right.
     VELSHI:  -- that are being conducted on the economic effects.  
     ROMANS:  Oh, big thick reports --
     VELSHI:  Yes.
     ROMANS:  From JP Morgan, one from Goldman Sachs, also where they take their quantitative models. There's a secret sauce that they boil down with all their brains and all their computers to figure out what stocks to pick, what investments to make and they apply it to the World Cup.  And it's fascinating how much attention is -- I think global banking is probably the biggest international kind of business there is.  
     So a lot of these people are really into it.  And then this morning I got the morning currency note from HSBC.  You know, I read it -- 
     VELSHI:  Yes.
     ROMANS:  -- so I know what's happening with the dollar.  And the first thing, you know, all of these things happening in the world and the first thing is World Cup trivia.  So I mean just so you know where there will be perhaps some productivity that's diverted toward World Cup, I would say banking might be one of those places.  
     VELSHI:  Well, yes, and those numbers from 2006 I think we can probably expect more Americans are going to be watching this year.  
     ROMANS:  I think so.  I think so.  But I think we've got a whole generation now -- 
     VELSHI:  Yes.
     ROMANS:  -- of people who grew up as little kids who -- you have to watch "Your $$$" this weekend folks, because we have this fascinating conversation with Max Kellerman who thinks that you know, basketball is the end all be all.
     VELSHI:  Right.
     ROMANS:  And the reason why soccer isn't so popular here is because we've got better sports that that.  
     VELSHI:  Matt Taibbi, who we often talk to, wrote an excellent article --
     ROMANS:  "Men's Health"
     VELSHI:  -- about why he doesn't care about soccer and the line that stood out to both of us is how nobody -- moms like it because nobody actually gets hurt really seriously in soccer.  
     ROMANS:  He said this.  
     VELSHI:  But the thing about soccer is if anybody so much as breathes on anybody else you go down and you writhe in pain like you've been shot.
     ROMANS:  Right.  A multi-millionaire European soccer star writhing in pain because someone breaths on him wrong.  And in the U.S., you know it's the full contact sports that are the real sports.
     VELSHI:  I'm going to enjoy watching it one way or the other. But yes, we've got a lot on "Your $$$" this weekend.  So tune into that.  Saturday at 1:00 p.m. eastern and Sunday at 3:00 p.m. eastern -- talking about the money of the World Cup.  
     All right.  It's been a big week in politics especially if you are a republican woman.  A republican woman who is not a career politician.  Very interesting week.  I'm going talk to about that when we come back.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)     VELSHI:  I was just saying before the break it's been a big week if you are a republican woman who is not a career politician.  I've actually got one with me right here.  She's not here.  Leslie Sanchez, my good friend Leslie Sanchez is in Atlanta this week.  
     LESLIE SANCHEZ, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST:  I came all of the way to Atlanta for you.  
     VELSHI:  I was supposed to be there -- I know.  
     SANCHEZ:  And, you know.  
     VELSHI:  It's crazy.  Leslie and I spent a lovely afternoon, if you recall, in North Carolina a few weeks ago.  
     SANCHEZ:  At Maya Angelou's.
     VELSHI:  At Maya Angelou, right, right.
     SANCHEZ:  Just hanging out.
     VELSHI:  Just for context, yes.  We didn't just go to meet in the afternoon -- at Maya Angelou's birthday party.  And Leslie said she was coming to Atlanta.  I said you've got to come on the show with me. Here she is and here I am.  But great to have you on.  
     What a week, Leslie, for republican women who are not career politicians.  We're talking about Meg Whitman.  We're talking about Carly Fiorina in California winning their primaries to run for governor and for senator.  Tell me your thoughts on this.  
     SANCHEZ:  There is no doubt it's been a very exciting week for the republican party, very exciting week for these women, and these candidates.  It basically shows a couple of things.  
     One, let's not discount democratic women who did incredibly well. This has been an important election because you have so many qualified candidates.  A lot of open seats and you're seeing women step up to the plate to take advantage of them.  
     We're excited about the powerhouse, the titans of business you see in California.  It's a unique model even for the republican party to see women that can self-finance at that level and these are going to be some of the most expensive campaigns in history to win these races.  So -- 
     VELSHI:  These two women were very -- they put a lot of money in. I want to ask you this because I get frustrated when I hear questions like this asked on TV but I'm going to ask you one.  It's simplistic. What was it?  Was it that they were outsiders?  Was it that they were businesspeople?  Or that they were women?  
     SANCHEZ:  Well, let me be clear.  What it was not is the fact that they were women.  These are qualified candidates offering a great solution to help their individual states and districts.  They're not running as women candidates.  They're not running on a platform of women's issues.  
     They're talking about fiscal responsibility, cutting and tightening their budgets, growing jobs in their community.  And an interesting argument was to kind of end this one-party rule in Washington that people want to hear there.  A lot of people feel their voice is not being listened to.  
     These women are saying I can speak for you,  I'm listening. Let's take our thoughts, our innovative ideas to Washington and show them. Or what we can do on the state level which we feel is the incubator of ideas.  That's a very important step for these women.  
     VELSHI:  What do you think of -- Carly Fiorina was CEO of Hewlett-Packard, Meg Whitman of EBay.  Carly Fiorina had an open microphone on the other day and she made a comment about Barbara Boxer's hair and about Meg Whitman doing an interview.  What's going on there?  
     SANCHEZ:  I think it's an open mike.  It's an experience every candidate has.  You know, I don't think there was necessarily that much.  People want to make a lot of it.  You know, it's interesting you always hear these things about cattiness or people talking about people's hair or any types of those things.
     I think the bottom line, she ran a very good race.  She's got a very tough general election against Barbara Boxer, and this is going to be a match to watch.  Two fundamentally different women, one a little bit more modern, new ideas, and innovative in her thinking, has business experience against a traditional Washington insider you know, who brings a lot back to the state.  It's going to be a very fair match-up.  
     VELSHI:  Tell me about your book, by the way.  You've got a book out.  
     SANCHEZ:  Yes, I've got a book called "You've Come A Long Way Maybe. Sarah, Michelle, Hillary, and the Shaping of the American Women."  It basically talks about women in politics, how far we've come.  I think this election is a great example of that.  
     2008 was a launching pad for many candidates because it was an important indicator women could match the money test.  They could raise money in significant amounts.  They used online media to do that in many cases.  People started taking these candidates seriously.  The other interesting thing these women knew they had to come from a position of an elected official or some sort of public sector experience.  
     They're not trying to jump ahead of the crowd.  They're basically on the upward ascension, bringing their own ideas and getting -- showing they have the medal for these races.  That's a very strong advancement.  I think for all women.  
     VELSHI:  Why are you in Atlanta?  
     SANCHEZ:  I am speaking at the League of Women Voters.  It is their 90th Anniversary.  Their convention is here, and I'm excited to be part of their effort.  
     VELSHI:  I'm hoping the next time you're there, I'm actually there.  Leslie, great to see you.  
     SANCHEZ:  There you go.  Thanks so much.  
     VELSHI:  Leslie Sanchez is a republican strategist and analyst joining us from where I normally am at CNN Center.  OK, back to oil. BP has been able to collect and siphon some of the oil leaking out of the wellhead and that hull could decrease dramatically after this weekend.  The latest developments in the Gulf oil disaster are coming up next.   
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     VELSHI:  I want to bring you up to speed on the latest developments in the oil crisis.  I want to apologize to you by the way for this coughing that's been going on for a long time.  Every morning I wake up and think that the cough is gone and it's not.  But that's because I don't talk at night.  But we'll get through it together.  
     BP has collected another 15,000 plus barrels of leaking oil, bringing the total since the cap was put in place a week ago to 88, 720 barrels of oil.  Over the weekend the company plans to start testing a second system that could collect an extra 10,000 barrels a day.  
     Now the national incident commander, Admiral Thad Allen, says the U.S. government has put $140 million into this disaster so far.  He says the fed will keep, quote, pouring in assets as long as it takes. BP says it's now spent more than $1.4 billion.  
     President Obama plans to return to the Gulf next week.  This time for a two-day visit to Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida.  When he gets back to Washington he'll meet with BP chairman, Carl Henrich- Svanberg, his first face-to-face contact with any BP official since the Deepwater Horizon exploded.  
     By the way I will also be in the Gulf coast all next week starting with the Monday with the CNN express visiting communities and people who've been affected by the oil spill.  I'll keep you posted on Facebook and on Twitter and right here on the show to tell you where we're heading next with CNN express.  
     If you see us, stop us, come and talk to us.  
     All right, in Haiti, nearly five months after the devastating earthquake thousands of desperate people still in need of shelter. But one well executed tent city remains empty.  And the reason may shock you.  It's our "Globe Trekking" destination right after this. 
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     VELSHI:  All right.  Time to go "Globe Trekking".  Our stop today is Port-au-Prince, Haiti.  Now nearly five months since the country was hit by a deadly and devastating earthquake, about a million people remain homeless.  And they're scraping by as best they can. Incredibly one state-of-the-art tent city actually remains empty. CNN's Gary Tuchman is in Atlanta to tell us about this disturbing development -- Gary. 
     GARY TUCHMAN, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Oh this is incredible story.  I've been to Haiti four times since the earthquake.  On the third visit in April we saw the huge area with hundreds of tents and they were all empty.  
     They were told oh they're about to fill them up.  So we just kind of ignored the situation which was a mistake.  We assumed everything was okay and journalism as in life, you should not assume.  We went back to Haiti in May, they were still empty.  
     And we wanted to find out some answers.  And the answers we found out were infuriating.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     TUCHMAN (voice-over):         This appears to be one of the nicest tent cities in earthquake decimated Port-au-prince.  More than 500 roomy state-of-the-art tents, showers and bathrooms, and it's all very clean.  
     (on-camera):  All these tents say USAID, from the American people.  So if you're one of the American people, you can be proud. But after you hear what I'm about to tell you, you also might be incredulous because while these tents have been here for weeks, nobody lives here.  
     These tents are empty.  
     (voice-over):  There are more than 1 million homeless people in Haiti.  Yet this camp is not yet open for business.  
     It's hard to believe, but right across the street from the elaborately planned tent city is an unsanitary over-crowded hodgepodge of hastily built shanties, thousands of people.  
     Marlane Boston (ph) wishes she lived in the new tents.  
     MARLANE BOSTON , EARTHQUAKE SURVIVOR (through translator): Because when it rains here, we have garbage and animals flowing through the streets and ditches.  
     TUCHMAN:   So why aren't people living here in this camp run by Haiti's ministry of the interior?  We asked a ministry employee in charge of making sure no squatters occupy the tents.  
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): There is a plan to have people come in here, but we're not done with the fence around the camp.  And also, the bathrooms don't have a pump yet.  
     TUCHMAN: That's all true, but certainly a lame excuse in such a desperate time.  So we went higher up.  One of the Haitian president's top aides tells us the camp was originally designed for the thousands of homeless people who live near the presidential palace.  
     And refused to come here because they thought the new camp was in an unsafe area.  When we tried to move the people to the new tents, says a member of the Haitian Commission For Redevelopment, they did not accept because those people were concerned about security. 
      So the plan now, according to the government, is to get rid of the tents and construct more permanent shelters to make those particular people feel safer.  
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (INAUDIBLE)
     TUCHMAN:  But right across the street this boy rapping about the earthquake, his family and hundreds if not thousands of other people, would have been ecstatic to move into the tents weeks ago.  
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): When the tents came, there was never a question.  Nobody had any plans for us.  We're from one of the poorest parts of town.  
     TUCHMAN: The government admits that people in this camp were not invited to move into the tents.  But says it's not a class issue.  
     However, it's certainly a bungled issue.  And this city with so many people desperate for decent shelter.  
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     TUCHMAN:  So now the tents are being torn down, more permanent structures are going up but it's absolutely anybody's guess how long it will before people actually move in to those structures.  Ali--  
     VELSHI:  How do you explain something like that happening with so many homeless people in Port-au-Prince?  
     TUCHMAN:  It's mind boggling.  It's bureaucratic bungling.  We just don't know the answer to that, to be frank with you.  I think what's amazing, Ali, is USAID is a great organization, the people at USAID give money and food and tents to people who need help all over the world and it's paid for by U.S. taxpayers.  
     So that's an amazing fact that all over the United States taxpayers have paid money for tents that will never be used.  
     VELSHI:  Wow, Gary all right, I'm sorry I missed you in Atlanta. But we run into each other a whole lot.  Good to see you.  
     All right stepping--stopping that oil gusher in the Gulf once and for all.  People talk about it on the front lines and around their dinner tables.  
     All sorts of folks are coming up with possible fixes.  And CNN is trying to share those with you.  Stay with us and we'll tell you about some of them.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)     VELSHI:  Everyday, CNN introduces five ways that might purge oil from the Gulf of Mexico.  There are ideas from scientists, inventors, and viewers. BP hasn't tried them yet, but maybe they should.  Until something works, we're going to demonstrate five ideas a day.  This hour we have two ideas from viewers like you, people with simple solutions to big problems.  
     First one is from iReporter Joseph Berto (ph) of Medford, Oregon. Berto is an inventor who thinks BP should install a modified milling machine on the side of the blowout preventer so that it cuts into the side of the well and pinches off the flow from the well.  He says even if it only prevented a percentage of it from leaking, it would still be an effective solution.  Berto says he also consulted his father, who was an engineer for Chevron and was involved with an oil spill clean-up in San Francisco in the '70s.  
     Next idea is from an iReporter, Rick Davidson.  Davidson is a mechanic and a business owner from Colorado.  He posted two iReports demonstrating his solution to help clean up the oil.  His idea involves a steel wheel that rotates and picks up the oil but leaves the water behind.  
     Both seemingly crude solutions, but let's face it.  The high-tech fixes from BP haven't worked yet.  So, BP, let's maybe look into simple solutions.  
     If you would like to submit your idea, just head to iReport.com.  
     The World Cup is under way.  We want to make sure you have all the tools available to you to enjoy it.  I'll take you through some of the finer points with a three-time member from the U.S. World Cup team, live with me when we come back. 
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     VELSHI:  About 30 years after some 30 victims lost their lives, the Atlanta Child Murders still haven't been settled for some folks. CNN's sledded O'Brien took a hard look at the investigation, interviewing the man convicted of two deaths and widely blamed for the rest.  
     After her special report premiered last night, a lot of you guys went to CNN.com to weigh the case against Wayne Williams. Unscientific, of course, but here's how the jury came back.  Sixty- eight percent said guilty.  Five percent said innocent.  And after seeing all the evidence, 27 percent feel the case against Wayne Williams was not proven.  
     If you missed it, Soledad's special airs both tomorrow and Sunday night at 8:00 and 11:00 Eastern.  Then you can be the jury.  Cast your verdict at CNN.com/atlantachildmurders.  
     OK.  Soccer not the only thing going on in Johannesburg right now.  Even folks not interested in the actual matches are still having a ball.  We have a live update from CNN eyes.  Isha Sesay. And three- time member of the U.S. World Cup team Tony Meola.     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
     VELSHI:  All right, World Cup is underway.  It started Mexico drawing with South Africa in the opening match.  Thirty-two teams are fighting it out in the world's most popular sport.  It's kind of like the Olympics, every four year it leaves the defending champion.  
     Joining me now is former U.S. national team goalkeeper Tony Meola.  Tony, good to see you.  
     TONY MEOLA, FORMER U.S. NATIONAL SOCCER TEAM GOALKEEPER:  Hey, thanks for having me.  
     VELSHI:  You've been in two World Cups, am I right?
     MEOLA:  Three World Cups.
     VELSHI:  Three World Cups.
     MEOLA:  But two or three World Cups, what's the difference?
     VELSHI:  No, but these are -- these are the biggest thing.  
     OK, got to tell you about Tony.  One thing about Tony that's interesting, is he's not just a remarkable soccer player.  
     You were drafted by the Yankees.  You were on the farm team. You're a great baseball player.  
     MEOLA:  Actually, I didn't go.  I was drafted out of high school and I went to play college, but I played soccer and baseball in college.  I had a dual scholarship.  
     VELSHI:  You had a scholarship for UVA.  You are an athlete and that actually brings us to something about all of these people playing soccer.  This is an athletic sport.  
     MEOLA:  You'll see great athletes, no question.  About this time, a month from now, every four years, I hear people that never watched soccer, they can't believe the physical fitness of these athletes. And these guys right now are as fit as they will ever be for the rest of their life.  And you work your entire life, just think from when you're of six years old to the time you can remember kicking your first soccer ball to be part of this.  
     VELSHI:  What does it feel like if you're on the American team and you're in South Africa, you're playing England tomorrow, and how does it feel?  I mean, are you a world contender team?  Are you tired of people at home saying this isn't their sport?  
     MEOLA:  Well, how do you feel, you start to get the jitters the minute South Africa and Mexico kick off, because now you know it's here.  You're sitting in the hotel room.  You're watching it as a group, and you start to -- you start, I'm here, you know, that's what you tell yourself.  There's obviously anticipation.  
     VELSHI:  Sure.  
     MEOLA:  The most difficult part about this period is -- and I tell everyone.  You have to trust yourself.  Right.  You've done the physical work.  You've done the mental preparation for years and years.  As a group, you're cohesive right now.  You got to believe in the people around you.  You got to believe in the game plan.  There's only one thing left to do, that's get on the field and play soccer.  
     VELSHI:  Play.  
     MEOLA:  And that's it.  It's a very difficult time right now.  
     VELSHI:  What's the American team good at?  
     MEOLA:  I think we're best -- we saw in the Confederation Cup last year, when we started to play a possession game, it didn't start well for us.  We're a counterattacking team.  
     We have some great athletes on the team.  I think you will see a lot out of Landon Donovan, Edson Buddle, Jozy Altirdore -- these are the names I think you're going to hear a lot of.  Steal the ball and get at people and get at people 100 miles an hour.  
     VELSHI:  Landon Donovan, he's been playing since he was 5 years old.  
     MEOLA:  I think he played his first World Cup when he was six.
     VELSHI:  Were you a young player?  
     MEOLA:  I was.  I was 21 when I played my first World Cup.  And I was in the World Cup with Landon when he played his first World Cup and it's no surprise to me that Landon Donovan is in this position right now.  
     VELSHI:  And there's 3 million kids play soccer in the U.S. right now, is that right?  
     MEOLA:  Well, there's 4.5 million registered kids, but there's about 20 million that play.  
     VELSHI:  Right, OK.  So, that's bigger than other kids' sports.  
     MEOLA:  Oh, yes, I think we're second most out of youth sports right now, and that has continued to grow.  And obviously, the women's side of thing has helped and their success as a women's national team, you know.  But -- but for us, what we're trying to do, see, when I started this was a young sport.  There were no -- I look at it at the youth level.  I coach at the youth level right now.  
     VELSHI:  Yes.  
     MEOLA:  I coach my kids' team, the youth-13 boys.  But when I started playing, I was one of the lucky ones.  I had a knowledgeable coach, but most of the coaches on the sidelines were dads and moms were filling in.       VELSHI:  May not have been soccer players themselves.  
     MEOLA:  They were not soccer players.  Now you go out on the field and I compete in tournaments with my group.  Every guy I coach against has played in high school, has played in college.  I've coached against professional coaches that I played against in the league, that type of thing.  And that's where the big evolution of the sport is going to happen.  
     VELSHI:  OK, you're going to stick around with me, because there's all sorts of things we want to talk about.  Stay right there.  
     I want to -- Kelly, is Isha there?  Can we talk to Isha?  
     Let's go to Johannesburg, South Africa, Isha Sesay our colleague from CNN, my good friend, she's there.  I'll be there on July 11th at Soccer City behind you, the brand-new stadium or the newly renovated stadium for the final game.  But there's 30 days in between.  
     ISHA SESAY, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Oh, my goodness, Ali, they are 30 days in between, and this -- there's something quite unique about this tournament, this World Cup.  
     As you pointed out in your chat with Tony, yes, the World Cup happens every four years, but this is the first time it's happening on the African continent and it is filled with a very unique energy and charm.  The South Africans have gone football crazy.  They are blowing these trumpets, I don't know whether you've seen them, the vuvuzelas.  
     So one thing you're guaranteed when you make it to that match on July 11th, is some fantastic atmosphere, which we really experienced firsthand during the concert.  The World Cup kickoff concert happened last night.  We were there, the tremendous acts that took the stage -- the Black-Eyed Peas, Alicia Keys, Shakira, they were all out there to rev up the energy and the atmosphere ahead of the tournament kicking off a short time ago on this Friday.  
     And, you know, Ali, we got to speak to John Legend, and I don't know whether we can play that sound.  He really gave us some sense of the magnitude of this occasion.  
     Let's listen.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     JOHN LEGEND, PERFORMER:  It was certainly great tonight, based on everyone filled with excitement for the World Cup, bringing some pride, you know, for South Africa being able to show the world what they're able to do here and, you know, I'm excited just to be a part of it.  I'm honored to be here.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     SESAY:  You know, Ali, when you speak to people here on the continent, you know, they're so used to the negative images of Africa going out to the world.  This is a time when they're basking in the glow of the fact that the continent's being shown in a whole new light through football.  The atmosphere is incredible, Ali.  
     VELSHI:  Isha, I'm going to ask Tony, where did you play?  Where were your three World Cups?  
     MEOLA:  I played in Italy the first one, in the United States and in South Korea and Japan.  
     VELSHI:  What is the place -- what role does the place that you're playing have to do with how successful this World Cup is and the psyche of the players?  
     MEOLA:  You can't have the biggest sporting event in a world in a country that doesn't embrace it.  I hear Isha talking about being in South Africa.  Just think about what this country's been through for the last 25 years.  If you'd have walked into South Africa 15 years ago and said you're going to host the biggest sporting event in the world, they would have looked at you like you're crazy.  
     I watched the game this morning, the Mexico/South Africa game, I don't want to be in New York anymore.  I want to be in South Africa.  
     VELSHI:  And, Isha, how is that feeling down there?  I mean, this is a big deal, it goes well beyond -- you sort of touched on it -- the images that we normally see of Africa versus what this represents. But to South Africa in particular, a place with segregated sports, a place that was shunned from major competitions in the world because of apartheid, I mean, there's a -- there's a different symbolism to having it in South Africa.  
     SESAY:  Oh, absolutely, Ali.  I want to share a great story with you that I heard today.  
     You know, these vuvuzelas, these trumpets are being blown at all hours of the day and many on the CNN crew are frankly tired of hearing them.  But a South African woman said, the vuvuzelas are being blown as a sign of celebration.  They're being blown by black and white people.  They're a moment of people coming together and blowing them in unity and rejoicing, so she said to me, let them blow them loud and proud.  That gives you some sense of how people are indeed coming together.
     And, you know, at that concert yesterday, you know, everyone was there singing together waving their flags together and you cannot underestimate what an important moment this is nor South Africa after everything they've been through, Ali.  
     VELSHI:  Tony, I want to ask you, for people who are not -- you can't not get into the spirit, as you said.  There are people that have no interest in soccer but then they start watching the games and people start talking about them and they watch them on TV.  We see it in the office people that are not interested in soccer end up watching them for the end.  
     For someone that doesn't have a trained eye, the first serious look at watching a soccer game, what are you looking for?  If you are a basketball fan, you are used to a high-scoring game, soccer is not.       MEOLA:  You have to appreciate that about the game and appreciate the fact that in this game one goal changes everything.  
     VELSHI: That's right.  
     MEOLA:  Not only does it change a game, it changes the spirit of a country in a lot of ways, right.  You go to Argentina and you lose your first game, right, and the country's in a shambles.  This is what the World Cup is.  If you are the untrained eye, just look at the passion the people have.  There's a reason they have this passion. They live this game.  They breathe this game.  We try and bring a little bit of that to the United States.  We did that in 1994, and it translated into major league soccer, our own domestic league, and that's what's helped the players grow.  That's what helped the fan base grow.  
     VELSHI:  Let's take a look at a picture from when you were playing.  I don't know if you can identify when this is.  
     MEOLA:  Yes.  This is, I think -- 
     VELSHI:  In '90?  
     MEOLA:  This is 1993.  
     VELSHI:  '94, I think, right?  
     MEOLA:  This is in '94 here, we're in Dallas stadium.  
     VELSHI:  You are the top left?  
     MEOLA:  I am the upper left with a lot of hair.  
     VELSHI:  A lot of hair.  
     MEOLA:  The hair's changed.  
     VELSHI:  Goalkeeper, what is the -- give us the comparison in the role that they play, particularly in tough games.  
     MEOLA:  Right.      
     VELSHI:  And they're all tough games, like you say, often very low-scoring games.  What -- is that the pitcher?  Is that the -- is it the importance of the pitcher?  
     MEOLA:  Everyone talks about the goalkeeper and the best translation we have in America is an NHL goalkeeper.  In the NHL, a goalkeeper can win a game for you.  In this, I try and break it down, right?  The really simple explanation I I've given myself for my entire life, the goalkeeper has to make all the saves they're supposed to make and one of the saves they're not supposed to make.  After that it's a bonus.  You cannot ask your goalkeeper in this game to keep you in for 90 minutes for three games.  It's impossible in soccer.  This is not the NHL.       And what it can do is lift your spirit.  You know, just when you think a team's going to score a goal -- I looked at that South Africa game today, and if that goalkeeper makes the save, which is a savable shot, not his fault, but one of those ones that you shouldn't have made, then it changes the entire look of the country.  
     VELSHI:  You'll be with us.  
     MEOLA:  Yes.  
     VELSHI:  Stay with us.  
     Tony was in three different World Cups.  

	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired June 11, 2010 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ALI VELSHI, CNN ANCHOR:  A brand-new hour right now, a brand-new "Rundown."  Let me show you where we are.  
     Isha, did we -- Isha, you're still there?  
     Good to see you, Isha.  
     ISHA SESAY, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Ali.
     VELSHI:  We're going to talk to you more.  I've got more questions.  You're so -- it's so familiar to have you around, that I didn't even think to say good-bye to you and thank you properly.  So good to see you.  
     SESAY:  Don't worry, Ali.  I'm here for you.  
     VELSHI:  Very good.  
     Isha will be with us through the whole World Cup.  
     All right.  I want to bring you up to speed with what we're doing right now.
     The Gulf of Mexico, 53 days into the oil disaster, the scope of it continues to grow.  You might not believe the latest numbers.  If you thought they were staggering before, just wait.  We've got new numbers of just how much oil is in the Gulf of Mexico.  
     Western Arkansas, very sad story there.  A deadly flash flood swamps a campground.  Now the search is on for stranded survivors, but at least 12 are dead.  
     And we were just there with Isha, Johannesburg, South Africa, and the rest of the world, for that matter.  It is game on.
     The World Cup kicked off this morning.  Former U.S. goalkeeper Tony Meola is going to be my co-anchor for this hour.  I've got special messages about this year's tournament, by the way, in my "XYZ."
     But, first, let me bring you the latest on the oil disaster in the Gulf of Mexico.  Let me tell you about the flow of oil.  
     We've been using those cameras -- scientists have been using the cameras, those underwater cameras, to get some sense of how much oil is flowing into the Gulf of Mexico.  It's been hard to do that, but they've now increased the estimate of the number of barrels a day.  
     Before BP cut the top of that riser and put that containment cap on, it was believed that, you know, maybe 20,000 at the high end, 20,000 barrels a day, was flowing into the Gulf of Mexico.  Now it is believed that 20,000 is on the low end, 40,000 might be the high end. We don't know how that's changed since the cap has gone on, but let me just tell you, there's a lot of oil in the Gulf of Mexico.  
     When they first put that cap on, the first day, they got 6,000 barrels.  After that, it's ramped up.  But you can see, yesterday, we came down a little bit from 15,800 to 15,400.  BP is moving another ship, another rig, into the Gulf of Mexico this weekend to experiment with another plan.  They continue to do so.  
     We're also checking the outflow of money.  BP says that it has spent $1.4 billion so far.  The U.S. government said it spent $140 million, although the U.S. government that its billing BP on an ongoing basis.  
     Let's talk about the relief wells.  This is going to be the thing that most engineers and scientists say is actually going to stop the oil from flowing out of that well.  You have to build relief wells.  
     Let me show you a picture of this.  
     So, there's the main well.  That's the one that's broken.  And then there are two relief wells being dug at angles.  
     It doesn't show it as well there, but they're being dug at angles.  The one on the right, relief well number one, is down about 14,000 feet.  Relief well number two is about 8,500 feet.  The best estimate right now are that this isn't going to be done until the beginning of August, so they've got to try to cap or contain as much of that oil as they can until they cap it.  
     What those relief wells will do is take the pressure that is pushing that oil up through that one well.  It will spread it around, and that will allow them to push something into that first well and try and cap it.  
     Let's go to Josh Levs.  He has been covering this new development, the increase in the estimate of the amount of oil that has been flowing out of the Gulf of Mexico.  
     And just for context, Josh, since day one, you know, the estimates were very low, and they would increase and increase.  And there were people saying, no, it's got to be more than that.  Well, now this team of scientists from the private sector, from the public sector, from the government, they've all come together and they said, yes, it's a lot more oil than we first thought.  
     JOSH LEVS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  And they think it might have been this way for weeks, exactly.  And that's the first thing to make clear to all of you, is not that they're saying that suddenly, the amount has increased over the last several days, it's that the amount that's been coming out might be a lot, lot more than we ever knew.       Let's go to the live pictures under water.  And I want to help everyone understand, because you might think if you're seeing this stuff come out, why can't they just tell how much it is?  Well, it's because you see a black cloud.  You can't know how much of that is actually oil.
     As the oil is escaping, it mixes with water and chemicals, creates a cloud.  They've been trying to figure out how much of it actually is oil.  And the latest numbers that we have, as Ali says, about twice as high as a previous estimate.  They're now saying 40,000 barrels a day, or 1.7 million gallons a day, ,might be escaping and might have been escaping for weeks.  
     Let's go now to the high-res video.  
     You know, the other day, I'm sure you heard us talk about it, we got this high-resolution video from under water.  And that is actually helpful to the scientists, because there it's a little easier for them to tell how many particles are oil.  
     Well, the new numbers we have are not even from this yet.  That's what's next.  So, the new numbers we have are from more intense studies of other imagery.  What we're waiting on now is scientists taking a good, hard look around the clock at this high resolution to see if maybe it's even higher than they're saying right now.  
     There's another problem that comes from this.  It's not just more oil in the Gulf.  It's also that the system that's set up right now to deal  with all this oil can only process a certain amount each day to try to guide a lot of the oil up to that drill ship on the surface. Right?
     Well, it only can handle a certain amount each day.  This is something Admiral Thad Allen talked about earlier today. 
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     ADM. THAD ALLEN, NATIONAL INCIDENT COMMANDER:  First of all, I think we're still dealing with the flow estimate and we're still trying to refine those numbers.  One portion of the work, as we've just indicated, came up with a higher flow rate.  As it stands right now, the actual production capable at optimum for the Discovery Enterprise and the Q4000, if they're operating at maximum efficiency, is 18,000 and 10,000, respectfully, so that's 28,000.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     LEVS:  OK.  You heard some numbers fly by, but the basic idea there is that if the current system is what they think it is, it's handling up to about 28,000, and could actually be a lot more than that every day that's coming out, which means they would need a more robust system to handle the amount of oil that they're trying to get their hands on.  
     Anyway, there's a lot of variables right now, a lot of big questions.       And, Ali, before I toss it back to you, I just want to read you one thing from our coverage here.  
     VELSHI:  Yes.
     LEVS:  If this latest estimate is correct, it would mean 90.1 million gallons have spewed in the 53 days since the rig exploded. That's more than eight times the amount spilled in the Exxon Valdez scandal.  
     (CROSSTALK)
     VELSHI:  I heard it another way.  It's like an Exxon Valdez every week.  
     LEVS:  Right, exactly, because we're in our eighth week.  It's about eight times that.  So, there you go.  Yes, it's a massive, massive amount.
     VELSHI:  It's such a devastating, devastating thing.  I mean, in the news business, we try and keep objective, and we try and -- you know, try and keep as much of the emotion out of it sometimes as we can.  How can you just not be devastated by the effect this has had on the people in the Gulf of Mexico?  
     You know, Josh, next week I'm going to be down there with the bus, with the CNN Express, just talking to people who are a little bit removed maybe from it, and finding out the effect it's had on them. When people are losing their jobs and they're not getting their checks, they're not spending at the local pizza parlor and the bowling alley and places like that.  This has just had such a devastating effect on people, it makes me sad.  
     LEVS:  Sure.  And the numbers we're talking about right now continue that economic effect, because the more oil that's in the Gulf, the more costs to deal with it.  All of it, the longer it's going to take to clean it up, the longer the fishermen can go back to work.  We've talked about that.
     It's an ecosystem that is a huge part of the way the entire region operates, and it affects the ripple effects very quickly, the whole country, including in the pocketbook, absolutely.
     VELSHI:  Yes.  All right, Josh.  Thanks for staying on top of it for us and continuing to just break this stuff down for us.
     All right.  Josh Levs in Atlanta.  
     When you hear the words "oil rig" and "Gulf of Mexico" these days, you probably think of BP.  But the Gulf is a very, very busy place.  Lots of companies, lots of workers out there.
     I'm going to show you the picture after the break.  
     Hey, by the way, here's the part you also want to stick around for, Tony Meola.  Look at him.  This is a three-time World Cup goalkeeper.  
     He's here with me.  He's shepherding us through our understanding of the World Cup, which began today.  
     Stay with us to hear what he's got to say.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     VELSHI:  Hey, I was telling you before the break, you know, we've come to associate BP with the Gulf Coast and oil drilling.  But the reality is that the Gulf of Mexico is a very, very, very busy place with lots of companies, tens of thousands of workers and rigs working in the Gulf.  
     Let's talk to Poppy Harlow.  She's here with me in New York with a breakdown of the folks who are doing work in the Gulf of Mexico -- Poppy.  
     POPPY HARLOW, CNNMONEY.COM:  Yes.  
     So many jobs supported in the Gulf.  The reason is the Gulf of Mexico, Ali, it's the third biggest deepwater region for that oil drilling outside of Africa and Latin America.  
     What we do know is that BP is the biggest player.  You've got a whole new CNNMoney.com story on that, BP being the biggest player in the Gulf.  But it goes way, way, way beyond that.  All right?  
     This is a graphic that just came up on CNNMoney.com.  It's exclusive on the site.  
     All of these dots, Ali, these are all the 70 rigs in the Gulf of Mexico right now.  And I want you to look at this.  This is all of the companies.  
     You know some of them well -- BP, Shell, Chevron, all the way down here to Exxon -- operating these rigs in the Gulf.  But here's the difference, Ali.  All these gray dots, these are rigs that are pumping out oil right now in the Gulf of Mexico.  
     But the blue ones -- and as you see they're deeper down -- these are all of those 33 rigs that were drilling and now they can't. They're idled because of the president's moratorium.  So, what we wanted to do was show you specifically some of those deepest rigs, and also talk about BP, because it is BP that is the biggest player in all this.  
     All 13 of these rigs are BP rigs.  Let's talk about the two deepest ones.  
     They're at 10,000 feet.  You've got the West Sirius rig, Ali, right here at 10,000 feet.  Also at 10,000 feet, you have the Deep Ocean Ascension.  
     Then you have Anadarko.  And, Ali, we talked about Anadarko earlier this week.     It's this company -- you've probably never heard of it, but guess what?  It was a 25 percent partner in BP in that Macondo oil well in that Deepwater Horizon rig that exploded.  They also have two rigs at 10,000 feet, the Discover Spirit, and also the Ocean Monarch.  And, again, all these rigs are idled now.  
     But I want to take you to the deepest rig.  This is Shell's rig, Ali.  I was actually going to fly out and be on this rig about a week after the explosion of the Deepwater Horizon.  They obviously had to cancel that trip.  That's at 12,000 right now, Ali.  
     But none of these -- 
     VELSHI:  Wow.  
     HARLOW:   -- are producing oil.  I know.  Twelve thousand feet; they're in the final testing on this rig right now.  
     But this one right here, this gray little dot you see at 8,202 feet, that is Anadarko's Atwater Valley Hub.  That is the only rig in the Gulf right now that is pumping out oil as we speak at that level.  
     Ali, 8,000 feet, that's 3,000 feet deeper than the Deepwater Horizon.  That rig exploded, Ali.  So, it's a big picture but you see -- go ahead.  
     VELSHI:  You're talking about the point at which the sea meets the bed of the ocean.  Because they then go deeper than that to the actual reservoir.  
     HARLOW:   Exactly.
     VELSHI:  But it's that much water depth that they're in.  
     HARLOW:   Exactly.  
     VELSHI:  And that -- you're on the -- go ahead, sorry.  
     HARLOW:   No, no, that's exactly right.  And this, 12,000 feet, that would be 7,000 feet deeper than the 5,000-foot Deepwater Horizon that we talk so much about, Ali.  And it's just amazing when you look at the cost and the hundreds of billions and billions of dollars that have gone into all of these rigs -- Ali.  
     VELSHI:  Fascinating, if you do get on the rig.  We were on a noble (ph) rig some years ago, and there could be more than 100 people working on that thing.  It's a 24-hour operation, it's three shifts. You're entirely self-contained.
     HARLOW:   Yes.
     VELSHI:  A lot of people working out there, too.  
     Poppy Harlow, good to see you.  Thank you so much.
     HARLOW:   A lot.  Thank you.       VELSHI:  Poppy Harlow.
     All of this stuff is on CNNMoney.com, and her video of all of these things, so you should check that out.  
     All right.  From crack addict, to prison inmate, to drug counselor, to CNN Hero.  We're going to check in with Susan Burton on her work to help women offenders who are transitioning to life on the outside.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     VELSHI:  We introduce to you new CNN Heroes throughout the year. We also like to follow up with past heroes, kind of check in on how their programs or their initiatives or just plain good deeds are going.  
     So, today, we revisit Susan Burton.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     SUSAN BURTON, CNN HERO:  We all leave prison saying, "I'm going to get my life on track."  And you end up getting off a bus, downtown Los Angeles, Skid Row.  Many times you don't even make it out of the Skid Row area before you're caught up into that cycle again.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     VELSHI:  Now, that cycle is a cycle our hero knows all too well. For over a decade now, she's been helping other women break that cycle.  
     Susan Burton is a CNN Hero and the founder of a New Way to Life Reentry Project.  She joins my now from Los Angeles.  
     For people who don't know -- first of all, welcome, and thank you for being here, Susan.  We really appreciate it.  
     BURTON:  Thank you.  And I appreciate being here.  
     VELSHI:  For people who don't know your story, Susan, you were in jail.  You served six terms for drug offenses in the '80s and '90s.  
     What got you there?  
     BURTON:  I had a 5-year-old son who was accidentally killed by a car.  I began to drink.  Then I began to use street drugs.  
     The street drugs were illegal, so I was sentenced to prison.  So, substance abuse, alcoholism addiction is what sent me back and forth to prison for over 10 years.  
     VELSHI:  And then in 1998, you formed New Way of Life, two years after you left prison for the last time.  According to the Department of Corrections in California, where you are, 60 percent of ex- offenders return to prison after offending.       Now, for people who aren't -- have not committed felony crimes, they sort of sit there and say, why wouldn't you just not commit the crime?  Isn't jail enough to sort of teach you not to do the thing that gets you back in there?  
     But it's really a struggle.  You've met people and dealt with people for whom that is really a struggle, staying out of jail once you've been in jail.  
     BURTON:  Yes.  You literally leave prison, and they give you $200 to make a new life with.  You have no support, no I.D., nowhere to go, and you end up back in the same environment.  At least I ended up back in the same environment, and many people do end up back in the same environment.  
     What I found is that -- 
     VELSHI:  And I suppose that not everybody is all that anxious to employ somebody who has just come out of prison.  
     BURTON:  Exactly.  Employment is a big problem if you don't have an I.D. and you don't have a Social Security card.  Plus, having a criminal history, it's next to impossible to find employment.  So, all of these factors go in to people returning.  
     What I found at a New Way of Life, over 70 percent of the people that come there, they make it.  They don't go back to prison.  They do find employment eventually.  And they find a place where they fit in the community.  
     VELSHI:  What happens?  So, somebody comes out of prison.  How do they find out about you?  What happens when they walk into your operation?  And what is it you can do that can help them stay out of prison?  
     BURTON:  Well, first of all, I welcome them home and welcome them back and tell them that there's a place there for them.  I show them around the house.  I introduce them to the other residents, and I let them become comfortable in our environment.  I take an assessment of what their needs are and begin to see how we can meet those needs.  
     VELSHI:  Let me ask you this, what's the biggest challenge?  You said 70 percent of them do well.  
     For the 30 percent who don't, what's the thing that gets them back into trouble, or the thing that doesn't allow them to succeed? What's the thing that you wish if you had a magic wand you could fix?  
     BURTON:  Personal commitment and perseverance in the face of the doors being slammed, in the face of discouragement.  If I had a magic wand, I would erase discouragement.  
     VELSHI:  Well, if you get that, let me know, because that would help us all out.  
     (LAUGHTER)      BURTON:  All right.  
     VELSHI:  Susan, great to talk to you.  Really great, the work that you're doing.  We appreciate it.  
     It's good for those women who come out, and it's good for society that you're doing it.  So, thanks very much.  And for that, you are our CNN Hero of the week.  
     BURTON:  Thank you so much for recognizing my efforts.  
     VELSHI:  My pleasure.  
     All right.  Let's take a look at the top stories today.  
     It's day 53 in the Gulf oil catastrophe.  We're now finding out that researchers have doubled their estimates of how much the gusher has been leaking.  We're also seeing damaged in oil-soaked birds, and, of course, economies struggling to survive.  
     We're now learning a 16-year-old who was attempting to sail around the world solo is OK.  Earlier, she had triggered a distress signal before losing contact with the outside world.  The California girl won't be finishing her journey.  She'll be picked up from the Indian Ocean within the next day.
     We'll keep you posted.  
     A sad story, western Arkansas.  Flash floods have swept through campgrounds.  We've now confirmed at least 14 people are dead.  Others are unaccounted for.  Volunteers and helicopters are searching for them right now.  
     Coming up, Chad Myers is tracking developments of that deadly flash flood.  He's going to tell you what happened.  And, by the way, he's going to tell you very specifically what you can do to avoid being a victim of a flash flood.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     (WEATHER REPORT) 
     VELSHI:  The World Cup is under way.  The first game started this morning, the second game is under way now.
     Right?  
     TONY MEOLA, FORMER U.S. NATIONAL SOCCER TEAM GOALKEEPER:  Just started.  
     VELSHI:  All right.
     Tony Meola is with me right now.  He's going to tell you what you need to look for, what are the most memorable upsets in soccer history.  This is a three-time World Cup goalkeeper.  
     We're going "Globe Trekking" with him when we come back. 
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     VELSHI:  OK time for "Globe Trekking".  Where else would you go today, but South Africa, 32 teams from all over the world are in South Africa for the worlds' greatest sporting event, The World Cup.  I know some people will take issue to that-with that but I'm a numbers guy. I'm a I'm a finance guy, I can back it up.  
     Over the next months of play you can be sure that there will be some see stunning upsets.  Upsets are the way it goes.  That's' what makes it exciting.  Here to talk World Cup we have got a pro, this is a former member of three U.S. world cup teams, goal keeper Tony Meola. This is a great athlete and a great supporter of soccer.  
     Tony, this morning, Mexico, South Africa, South Africa many people thought would be the first country not to make it out of their first round.  They've still got to win another game to do that, but that was not going to be.  
     South Africa's the host country, when I say first country, I mean the first host country.  Not a highly ranked team in the grand scheme of things.  
     When you look at the game like that today, ended up in a draw, one goal each.  It doesn't seem exciting to American sports watchers.  
     MEOLA:  Well when you say the game was 1-1 and you didn't see the game, maybe it doesn't sound exciting.  
     But if you watch the game, you had Mexico the first 20 minutes of the game who really poured it on South Africa.  You never thought South Africa was going to be in the game.  And then all of a sudden they come out in the break, they get an outstanding goal.  
     Might end up being one of the goals of the tournament, the first goal we score in the tournament and Mexico is on their heels and battling and battling.  South Africa has a chance to make it 2-0 on the breakaway goalkeeper makes a save two minutes later Mexico scores, 1-1 now.  
     Now the drama is -- you could feel the stadium, of course, the host country.  And now South Africa goes down in the 93rd minute of the game and hits the post.  
     And here's a country that, as he going in on a breakaway the country's going like this, and as he hits the post it's like one of these. 
      And that's really the beauty of The World Cup.  So, yes, when you just tell me the score you call me up and say the game was 1-1, that was one thing.  But when you sit and watch the game, I was walking out of an appointment we had today to do another interview and all of a sudden it was 1-0, when we left South Africa, I heard yelling.  Well I was with three other guys we heard yelling, we ran into a coffee shop, and there's 200 Mexican fans going absolutely crazy.  
     VELSHI:  So you figured out what happened, Mexico got a goal. All right, so tomorrow you're going to hear a lot of yelling in America, because tomorrow is that -- that game between England and the USA.  Tell me what the storied history is here that this is such a big deal.  Why is an England/USA match up such a big deal.  
     MEOLA:  Well You mentioned history and you mentioned upsets, right, earlier?  
     VELSHI:  Yes.  
     MEOLA:  And in 1950 the U.S. pulled off what they thought was the biggest upset in World Cup History, and everybody thought so -- 
     VELSHI:  (INAUDIBLE)  the last time the two teams played have each other?  
     MEOLA:  In the World Cup.  
     VELSHI:  In the World Cup.  
     MEOLA:  They've played since times since.  But the U.S. won 1-0 and really shattered the English hopes of really advancing their game. 
     VELSHI:  The Brits were a little annoyed that the Americans beat them at their game.  
     MEOLA:  They were.  And I still read reports and there are still people stinging from 1950.  And that's how that game resonated.  Then you go to the U.S.--was also involved in a game that I played in, in another big upset which kind of reminds me of this game a little bit, the U.S./England game, but only because Colombia in 1994 was picked by some to win the World Cup.  
     VELSHI:  Right.  
     MEOLA:  And then we were able knock off Carlos Valderrama with the hair and the whole nine yards in Pasadena, 2-1, we win that game and advance to the next round.   Colombia gets knocked out of the tournament.  
     VELSHI:  Which is interesting, about this, this is the one thing. It's kind of like March Madness and somebody could get knocked out inadvertently early.  So it could be a favorite could be the one you think is going to win the whole thing.  
If they get knocked out in an earlier round. 
     MEOLA:  The good teams will tell you the hardest part of this tournament is the first round.  
     VELSHI:  That's right.  
     MEOLA:  Once you get into the elimination round, you know your teams' are clicking and the teams are playing good and the cream rises to the top.  Now there always-- seems to always be a surprise in the tournament, but for sure the tough teams -- because, let's face it, who's the U.S. geared up for?  
     If England is the No. 1 team in the group, OK, we'll concede that and let them have the title,.
VELSHI:  Right
     MEOLA:  But you're gearing up for this game.  Right so the Argentina's the Brazil's when you are drawn into the group with the Brazil's, who you looking at?  
     In that group you're not looking at anybody else in that group. Your looking Brazil and you're looking Italy.  You are looking this afternoon we'll see the second half of the group in France, Uruguay, France is a team that two world cups ago wins the World Cup and some of those players still on that team, so we are those are the games you're looking at.
     VELSHI:  How much has the game changed since you were actively playing it?  
     MEOLA:  Well I don't know that the physical part has changed all that much. I mean you're-every four years these guys are in the best shape they've ever been in their entire life.  I think what's changed is everything around it, you know?  Especially here in the United States, just given what I -- 
     (BEGIN VIDEOCLIP)
     VELSHI:  That's you, by the way.  
     MEOLA:  Is that me?  
     VELSHI:  That's you with the hair. The ponytail.
     MEOLA:  With the long hair. 
     The uniform has changed and the hair's changed.  But I think everything that surrounds it for sure has changed.  There's a lot more media coverage now there's a lot more interest in the game, and every four years guys like myself have to go around and help promote the game.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     MEOLA:  And we understood that when you play soccer, we understood 15, 20 years ago, you had two jobs.  You had to play the game and you had to promote the game.  
     VELSHI:  Right.  
     MEOLA:  And that's really what it was and that's something that every player that I ever played with accepted.       VELSHI:  Stick around with me, Tony Meola a former member of three world U.S. cup teams, a former major league soccer player goaltender.   You saw the pictures of him.  I'll going to come back to him in just a little while, to guide you through this World Cup.  
     But first, top stories when we return.  Including a oil Gulf alert, I'll tell you why scientists are in an even darker mood today about that oil leak when we get back.
     VELSHI:  All right.  Let me you give you a check on the top stories we're following here at CNN.  Let's start with the latest in Gulf oil disaster.  Even as BP prepares to test a new collection method that could help siphon up more oil, scientists have doubled their estimate of how much water is escaping that deep-water wellhead. The new number?  40,000 barrels leaking every day for weeks now.  
     Also, in Arkansas, a flash flood has swept through a campground killing now at least 16 people.  The search is on for stranded survivors.  Helicopters and local volunteers are helping out.  We're going to keep a close eye on this story and bring you any new developments.  
     In Peru, Joran van der Sloot has been charged with the slaying of a 21-year-old woman.  A Lima court says van der Sloot he acted with ferocity and great cruelty in the death of Stephany Flores in a hotel room in Lima.  Van der Sloot has been also considered the main suspect in the 2005 disappearance of American student Natalee Holloway in Aruba.  
     OK.   When we come back, we've been waiting for this for days. Ed Henry was in a steerman plane, an antique plane.  He was subbing in for me, and as you saw a couple days ago, the plane in front of him tipped over.  
     He wasn't in that one, but now we're going get the story that we were supposed to get a couple days ago.   Stay with us, Ed's coming up right after this. 
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) VELSHI:  I want to recap a story we're following very closely for you. This is the flash flood that hit a campground in west Arkansas. Killing 16 people.  They're still looking for more people right now.  
     These are some photos that we're getting in.  This was a very sudden raise.  It was 7 inches of rain Chad tells us within 48 hours. But the reality is that this river where people were camping sort of acted like a funnel, so that river gained a lot more height, too fast for the campers to get out, unfortunately.  
     So, authorities are still going through there.  These are pictures that are still coming in, what we're looking at a computer, but this is some of the area that has flooded.  The area that was flooded was by a river, as I say.  Police say that they are still looking up and down that river, about ten miles south and ten miles north.       One fire department respondent told a reporter it looked like the river at this point is going 100 miles an hour.  We don't know that to be accurate, but it's moving very, very quickly.  
     They're still trying to see who is in there.  It was a remote area and it wasn't a camp ground that you check in and out of, and there wasn't a ranger on site, so authorities just don't know how many people were there.  But they say 16 are dead, including some children. 
     We'll stay on top of that very, very closely for you.  
     All right.  Time now for something we do every day at this time, our Ed Henry, White House Senior Correspondent, and his stakeout, he has had a heck of a week.  Ed, I'm going talk about your week in a second.  But, first, let's talk about the guy you follow every day. The president.  He's got some people across the pond in great Britain a little mad about all of this BP bashing.  
     ED HENRY, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  He does.  It's very interesting.  There's going to be a big phone call this weekend, that's already been scheduled, very rare for it to be scheduled in advance like this, but President Obama and Prime Minister Cameron, the new prime minister in Britain.
     And they're going to talk some things out.  And it's interesting because I was talking to my colleague Dan Lothian about this earlier that.  To hear Robert Gibbs tell it yesterday at the briefing, he was kind of so downplaying the BP angle, saying they were going to talk about Afghanistan, an important subject.
     They may even talk about the World Cup.   It's almost like he was saying you know they'll talk about the weather, they're going to talk about anything but BP. 
     But The fact is this going to be in at least good part about BP. Because you're right.  In Britain there's a lot of anger, there's feeling that some of president's rhetoric about kicking ass and basically taking names figuring who he needs to whip into shape down there in the Gulf has frustrated a lot of people on the other side.  
     No. 1.  And, No. 2, BP has lost about 40 percent of its value and a lot of the pension funds there have BP in the funds.  
     VELSHI:  And that that's--we're talking about little old ladies sometimes who are invested in conservative mutual funds or pension funds that pay a dividend because BP is that important in Great Britain.  All right, I want to talk about something else.  The other day I asked you to sub in for me on an assignment to fly a plane.  An antique plane.  
     I'm sorry I missed it.  You had a little more excitement than I expected because as you landed, the plane in front of you tipped over, and you were telling us about that the other day.  
     HENRY:  You said you were a little sick, so you wanted me to fill in.       VELSHI:  I've had this cough.  
     HENRY:  Yes, you had a cough.  It was a nagging cough, I felt really bad for you.  Except this turned in to be a much bigger thing. And I felt a little under the weather after all of this, so I thought I would sot of put together --  you know a little under the weather myself. I put together exactly what happened, Ali, take a look.  
     (BEGIN VIEDOTAPE)
     HENRY(voice-over):  Normally I get to fly around the world on the big bird, Air Force one.  
     So, you're probably wondering why on earth I agreed to hop into this open cockpit and fly in a WWII era steerman.  It literally was a pile of parts before retired US Airways pilot Ron Gorr bought it and had it rebuilt.  
     RON GORR, RETIRED US AIRWAYS PILOT :  We threw everything away except the hardware.  
     HENRY(on camera):  But the wings are all screwed in now, right? so, we're good right?  
     GORR:  We're good.  Just as good as Air Force one.  
     HENRY(voice-over):  Well, not exactly.  Before we took off at Manassas regional airport in Virginia, I realized this plane was a bit smaller and had a little more trouble starting up.  
HENRY (on camera):  What's our escape plan?  
     GORR:  What's our escape plan?
     HENRY:  yes.  All right.  I don't know if I like that.  Just a laugh?  
     GORR:  We have no escape plan.  
     HENRY:  Is there a parachute?  
     GORR:  No, there's no parachute or anything.  
     HENRY:  So that's what you would do if you had an engine failure, you go somewhere where you find a field.  
     GORR:  Hopefully.  
     HENRY:  I just want to have a plan b, that's all.  
(voice over):  But I flew anyway, because Ali Velshi asked me to do it.  That's right, our daily bromance has grown to the point I actually believed Ali when he told me it would be no big deal if I filled in for him.       And it started out fantastic.  Up in the sky, just 1,000 feet above the ground.  It literally feels like you're aboard a flying Harley.  The biplanes were used to train Army cadets in WWII are featured in a new IMAX film "Legends Of Flight". 
     The first 20 minutes were exhilarating.  But by the time we reached the Potomac river, I was feeling a bit sick.  
(on camera):  We came over the river, and -- but it was -- it was incredible, but after a while, I was kind of like, , I want to land now.  I think I'm good.  
     We should land. 
(voice over)  Little did I know the landing was going to be far worse for a plane just ahead of me, carrying a Washington post reporter and flipped over.  
     (on camera)  All of the sudden the air traffic control, I could hear it on hear, just say, no, runway one is closed.  
     And he said, okay, and they said, land on runway three.  And I thought, okay.  That seems a little odd.  It was -- it was sort of very abrupt.  
     (voice over)  Fire trucks and ambulances raced to the scene, but in the end, everything was fine.  Except, perhaps, my willingness to ever fill in again for a certain news anchor.  
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     VELSHI:  Ah.  Aside from that little mishap, it seemed like a lot of fun.  
     HENRY:  It was a lot of fun.  I guess I owe you that.  I got a flight jacket out of it, but a little bit of a scare.  My colleagues in D.C. Who were, you know, there, shooting the pictures of this plane arriving, they thought maybe that was my plane that flipped over, so there was sort of a momentary scare.  
     Gave everybody a little bit of heart palpitations, but we're all good and it was a great experience, but I will never fill in again for you, my friend.  
     VELSHI:  It's always good to see you.  You have a fantastic weekend.  And we will see you again all next week.  Ed Henry and the stakeout from the White House.  
     Playing around with World Cup words.  Football versus soccer. There's actually a difference that I'll tell you about it when we come back 
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)     VELSHI:  Time for "Wordplay" today.  We've been talking World Cup here with Tony Meola.  He's a three-time goal keeper from the World Cup on the U.S. team.
     So here's the question, why do we call it soccer here in the U.S. while everyone else calls it football?  Soccer's actually a slang term, comes from England.  From the land of football.  They needed to distinguish it from rugby, which is what they needed to distinguish it from.  
     You see, they had rugby football and association football. Association football is where one -- is where players use their feet.  
     Soccer became a way to -- shorten the word association.  When the game-I don't know how you get soccer from association.  When the game came over her, there was a game called football, you know the Packers the Bears the Giants those guys the helmets, soccer stuck. And that's why we have soccer.  
Tony, tomorrow, England versus USA.  You able to make a prediction on that?  
     MEOLA:  I'm going to pick the United States 2-0.  I've been picking them 2-0 for a long time.  I'm not picking with my heart right now, I'm picking with my soccer brain.  I think this team is good enough to defeat England.  
     VELSHI:  Very good, all right.   And then what do you think is going to happen through this World Cup who do you think we'll be looking at on July 11?  
     MEOLA:  Well I think Brazil has to be one of the favorites, but, of course, when you pick Brazil, you're no rocket scientist.  But I think Brazil, Spain, Argentina are the three teams to look out for.  
     VELSHI:  What are we looking for.  If I am looking at games, what do I look at other than the obvious?  Are there moments are there plays?  
     MEOLA:  The pace of the game.  The teams that pick up the pace of the game and really put the other team under pressure is generally the team that comes out on top.  
     VELSHI:  You think that -- are you going to see -- is this the kind of thing where we're going to see those -- those fantastic moves that we sometimes see when we see highlight reels?  
     MEOLA:  Well you've got the two dribbles in the world, Lionel Messi from Argentina and Cristiano Ronaldo for Portugal.  Those are going to be ,the two guys, that are going to be on the highlight reels for years to come.  
     VELSHI:  It's an entertaining sport to watch.  
     MEOLA :  Enjoy it.  It's going to be a lot of fun.       VELSHI:  All right.  Tony great to see you Thank you for being here.  Will you come back?  Are you going to be around for the World Cup
     MEOLA:  If you invite me, I'll be back.  
     VELSHI:  We love talking to you.  I mean it's a great thing and we're all enjoying the World Cup together.  There's so much going on in the world not about celebrating, so we're taking this little piece of time to be able to do that.  Tony Meola,  former member of three U.S. World Cup teams, former goalkeeper major league soccer team player here in New York.  
     All right.  When we come back, for my "XYZ", I have got a very special World Cup tournament edition for the host country.  It's a bit special for me, too it's a little personal I'll tell you about it when I get back. 
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
VELSHI:  Time now for the  "XYZ "of it.  The first game of the World Cup wrapped up hours ago between Mexico ranked 17th in the world and South Africa the host country ranked 83rd.  It ended in a draw. Clearly Mexico was the statistical favorite although no host country in the history of the World Cup has ever failed to advance beyond the first round.  The first round involves two more games for South Africa.  So whether or not it advances or fails remains to be seen. But win, lose or draw or South Africa this World Cup really is about how you play the game literally and figuratively. 
     Full disclosure here my parents and my sister were all born I South Africa.   I've lived and worked there.  My family's experience in the struggle against apartheid which separated people on the basis of their color was a driving force of the way I see the world and my sense of social justice.  
     Because of apartheid, because of the fact that only a tiny minority of South Africa's population could get a proper public education, vote, move freely and enjoy basic civil liberties, South Africa was rightly shunned by the world until the mid-1990s.  
At the height of the stupidity known as apartheid there were nine different classifications or groups.
     Where you fell in that classification was based on ridiculous pseudo-scientific tests.  In some cases blood-related members of the same household were classified as different races and had different rights.  
     Thousands fought and died fighting apartheid.  From the late '60s many of what -- the faces of what is now called The Rainbow Nation blended into one.  
     The face of Nelson Mandela.  He served 27 years in prison, much of it doing hard labor.  He was released in 1990.  He won election as the first Democratically elected president of South Africa.  
     Democratically elected by every citizen who wanted to vote. South Africa became a new vibrant Democratic country born in our time. 
     Today it has one of the most advanced constitutions in the world. A population of 48 million people, 11 official languages and a bright but still troubled future.  We'll all get to share a piece of that future every day for the next month.  
     You may not care much about soccer or the World Cup, but when you watch a game, knowing that you are watching history being made, one of the finest competitions on earth, bringing a troubled world together in one of the most culturally enriched,  most complex and exciting countries on the planet.  
     Whether or not South Africa scores another goal in this World Cup, it will end this month victorious.  
     That's my "XYZ". here's RICK'S LIST.   

	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired June 11, 2010 - 16:49:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>	(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
	BECKY ANDERSON, HOST (voice-over):  He's known as a maverick of football and is as famous for his good looks as he is for his right foot.  But whatever David Ginola is approaching, he does it with style.  The French football legend launched his career in his native country, but quickly moved to England, where he signed for Newcastle United.
	From there, he moved to Tottenham Hotspurs, where he became an instant fan favorite.  He's often been referred to as the assassin of French football, after an infamous flip-up in the 1994 World Cup qualifications that cost France their slot.
	Off the field, Ginola has tried his hand at both modeling and acting and worked with the Red Cross to spearhead an anti-land mine campaign.  As the World Cup kicks off, we get the inside scoop.  David Ginola is your Connector of the Day.
	(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
	ANDERSON:  And ahead of tonight's game, which was 0-0 against Uruguay, of course, I saw down with David here in London.
	And I started off by asking him how he thinks France is going to fare in the tournament.
	This is what he said.
	(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
	DAVID GINOLA, FORMER INTERNATIONAL FOOTBALL PLAYER:  Betting on the French team, I think they are eight or something like that in the ranking, that's not something I -- I really appreciate for my country, because they should be in the top three since 1998.  Obviously, in 2000, when they won the World Cup and the Jubin Championship, have been a gap of, you know, struggling moments.  2002 in South Korea it was pretty bad.  Obviously, they reached the final in 2006.  The European Championship in 2008 was a -- a disaster.
	So that's why, you know, there's a lot of talking about the manager -- is it good enough, has he got the right choice tactically?
	So it's quite difficult to say, really.
	ANDERSON:  Martin has written to us.  He says:  "Do you feel that the French team even deserves to be at the World Cup given," as he describes it, "their cheating against Ireland -- "
	GINOLA:  I know -- I know -- I know what he means.
	ANDERSON:  Thereon Reid's (ph) hand of God, of course.
	GINOLA:  I -- I don't think it's really the matter.  The matter of Gerry Henri (ph) ends and it's a con -- it's a concern about the referee.  I don't want to be too protective for -- for the French, but I felt very, very bad for the -- for the Irish, because with these two -- these two games, they really deserved to -- to go through, because instead of France in Paris, the game was really in the -- in their favor.  And they play great football.
	ANDERSON:  It would have been an exhilarating moment, even if it were helped by a hand ball for the French score to get through.
	What was the most exhilarating moment in your career?
	GINOLA:  Well, it's obviously and probably when I was voted player of the year in 1999, because when I arrived in England in 1995, most of the people in France were considering that the English football wasn't really a ball for me.  So it was quite, you know, giving an answer to them, saying, well, any football is suitable for me.
	ANDERSON:  You left France, of course, because of a moment in 1994 when you were playing for the national sport.
	How do you feel about the title "assassin of French football?"
	And that's a question from Agilli today.
	GINOLA:  It was a difficult time for me.  But when I think about it, seeing a manager or hearing a manager saying that because of the problem was a player, I always thought that the manager should, you know, defend his players and take the responsibility of a defeat or the elimination.
	ANDERSON:  What makes the beautiful game the beautiful game, David?
	GINOLA:  I think it's probably because that football is the most practice football game in -- in the world.  You -- you can play with your friends in the street.  It's an easy game.
	ANDERSON:  Let's talk about who you think is going to win.  Be a pundit for us...
	(CROSSTALK)
	ANDERSON:  -- a politician.  Come on.
	GINOLA:  -- Becky.  I hate doing that because -- because as -- as a professional football player, when you're doing -- you're saying something like that, we have so many teams, you get exposed.  Because...
	ANDERSON:  Just because you're not going to say France.
	GINOLA:  But just -- I mean if you say...
	(LAUGHTER)
	GINOLA:  -- no, no, no, no, no.  No.  If you say something right...
	ANDERSON:  Yes?
	GINOLA:  -- if you say, for example, England -- and -- and I wish England will go as far as they could, you know, even in a tourn -- in the last four.  But they will not get out of the group.  They will say, well, David, you know, he was a good player, but as a pundit and (INAUDIBLE) I mean he's pretty bad.
	So I will...
	ANDERSON:  Yes, but I'm not going to let you off.
	GINOLA:  I will guess...
	ANDERSON:  Get off the fence.
	GINOLA:  -- three...
	ANDERSON:  Come on.
	GINOLA:  -- three or four teams...
	ANDERSON:  Right.  Go on.
	GINOLA:  -- who could be really interesting to focus on.  England, obviously, because they are not favorites, but they're still able to -- to provide and, you know, do the piso (ph).  I'm pretty sure about that.  But we have to wait and see, obviously, tomorrow for the first game.
	Spain, because they are FIFA top ranking anyways, so they are the best team in the world at the moment.  Maybe a surprise.  There will be interesting to see a surprise, an African team on their home soil.  It would be such a great image to see, for example, Nigeria or Ghana or Cameron or even Ivory Coast.  You need a level one.
	(LAUGHTER)
	GINOLA:  OK.  And Brazil or Italy because...
	ANDERSON:  Right.
	GINOLA:  -- they're always in the last top.
	ANDERSON:  You are going to be vilified at home.
	GINOLA:  Why?
	ANDERSON:  Because you left out France.  You really don't -- you don't buy them...
	GINOLA:  No, because -- because I don't think...
	ANDERSON:  Yes.
	GINOLA:  -- at the moment, that's why -- I mean -- I mean I saw them playing against China, against Costa Rica, the last few games against Tunisia, the last three games they played -- prednie (ph) games before this competition.  And they didn't play well.  They didn't play as a team.  And when you reach this competition, you need to be all together.
	(END VIDEO TAPE)
	ANDERSON:  David Ginola.
END

	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired June 11, 2010 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     CANDY CROWLEY, CNN ANCHOR:  Good evening, everyone.  Campbell is off.  I'm Candy Crowley.  
     We have got some breaking news tonight in the deadly Arkansas campground flood.  There are fears that dozens of people could still be trapped there.  I will talk to the governor of Arkansas in just a moment, and we will get the very latest.  
     Also tonight, could there be a huge new White House plan to spend billions rebuilding Louisiana's wetlands?  On day 53 of the disaster in the Gulf, the spill is far worse than anyone thought, twice as big as original estimates, the equivalent of another Exxon Valdez every five days.  I will talk to Congressman Ed Markey, who says the company has either been lying or is grossly incompetent.  
     And later: the California teenager who is stranded tonight on her sailboat in the Indian Ocean.  Why was she ever allowed to sail around the world alone, and who pays for her rescue?  Lots of news to get to tonight.  
     But we begin with our number-one story, the story that led all the network newscasts tonight, what is being described as a tsunami in the middle of the night at that campground in Arkansas.  
     Flash flooding swelled the Little Missouri River, washing away tents filled with sleeping campers, and killing at least 16 of them.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Families that vacation at the campground in the Ouachita Mountains every year say they have never seen anything like it.  
     CHAD BANKS, SURVIVOR:  The current was so strong that it literally took the tires off my rims on the front of my truck.  That's how -- and we barely made it out.  
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The Chriss family has been coming here for 25 years.  This time, they lost their dog and almost saw their son drown downstream.  
     ANGELA CHRIS, SURVIVOR:  I have a 16-year-old that was floating down the river, saying, mama, daddy, help me.  And all we had to do is -- we couldn't do nothing.  We had to watch him float down.  And thank God he lodged to a tree.  
     RICK SANCHEZ, CNN ANCHOR:  So, these people were literally looking for high ground, as would be natural...
     (CROSSTALK) 
     NICK HOFERT, SURVIVED ARKANSAS FLASH FLOOD:  Yes, sir.
     (CROSSTALK) 
     HOFERT:  They were -- they were coming up from everywhere, yes, sir.  And they -- I mean, it was like ants running from -- from water. I mean, it was bad.  
     And then they had split -- it happened so fast that they, like I said, lost their -- half of their family or lost somebody in their family.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     CROWLEY:  Arkansas Governor Mike Beebe just got back from a tour of the flood scene.  He joins me now on the phone.  Governor, can you just tell me what you know now of the situation as it stands tonight?  
     GOV. MIKE BEEBE (D), ARKANSAS:  Well, we know of 16 confirmed deaths.  There are several that are unaccounted for, and so search and rescue is still ongoing.  And hopefully that won't be totally search and recovery.  
     We have virtually every asset you can have.  This was a national area, a national forest area.  So the federal folks are on the scene, but we also have all our state assets as well.  We have state agencies, National Guard, state police.  And then the local folks, the sheriff's offices are all involved in the search and hopefully rescue or if not recovery operations as we speak.  
     The water was just -- it came up very, very quickly.  Apparently within a matter of about three hours, the river went from a three-foot level to 23 1/2 feet.  So you can imagine.  It's a mountainous area, where if your viewers can imagine, it's like a canyon where all that water comes down from the mountains and just goes and is funneled into a small area.  And the river rose very quickly.  
     It happened at the worst possible time because it was between 2: 00 and 5: 00 in the morning.  And obviously, all those campers were asleep.  All those vacationers that were camping along that river were asleep.  And so they -- they had no way to know.  The weather service had issued a warning at 2: 00 a. m. , but unless you were awake with a radio, the odds are you never would have known that.  And even then, we're not sure whether or not people would have reacted to it.  
     So it was just a horrible convergence of a number of events.  And as a result of it, you see this huge loss of life.  
     CROWLEY:  Governor, we have heard that there might have been up to 300 people in that area.  It is that time of the year.  People are out in the summer.  Is there any way to get a precise number?  Do people check in to this area?  And do you have any idea, just a range of how many people are still missing?       BEEBE:  No.  Those are pure estimates.  And here is the reason why you don't know.  It's twofold.  First of all, the U.S. Forest Service does have a check-in place, and so there was a record of people who had checked in to that campsite.  The problem is all those records were washed away with that same flood.  
     Secondly, there are huge areas that people camp in around that river area and in tributaries and bays and various other locations, that they don't actually go to the federal campsite to check in.  So there is undoubtedly a number of people who were camped that never did check in, even if the records had been available.  
     So the combination of those two things suggests that there is no absolute way of knowing.  It will be a number of days, obviously. There are vehicles with license plates.  There are people who know that their loved ones were in that area camping.  And so it will be a matter of hours and maybe days, and hopefully not much longer than that, to piece together the number of people who were in the area.  
     There certainly were a large number of people rescued.  Early this morning, there were a large number of people that were rescued by federal officials, by park service officials, as well as by local sheriffs and state police officers, National Guardsmen and others who immediately came to the scene and started rescue operations.  
     CROWLEY:  Governor, as I understand, and as the way you describe it, this is a fairly remote area.  Would there be any way for survivors who may not yet be rescued to be signaling you?  Is cell service available?  Is there any way that they could be signaling any of these rescuers?  
     BEEBE:  Well, cell service in that area is virtually nonexistent. It is truly remote.  And that's the reason a lot of the people like to go there, is because they indeed are in a remote area and they are away from civilization.  And a lot of times, that's the attraction for a lot of people that like to camp in the wilderness.  
     Now, what we have done is we have some portable cell phone towers that are being dispatched to the area so that if there are people with cell phones who are still stranded, what had previously been nonexistent cell phone service hopefully will be improved with the portable cell phone towers.  But it's a very, very remote area.  
     But we have helicopters.  We have people on horseback.  Obviously all-terrain vehicles and people on foot, as well as in canoes and kayaks and watercraft, that are scouring a very large area that could potentially hold people who are still clinging to areas where the water has gone down and waiting for rescue attempts.  
     CROWLEY:  Governor Mike Beebe of Arkansas, certainly one of the worst times to be governor, I'm sure.  We thank you for giving us some of your time.  
     BEEBE:  Absolutely.  
     CROWLEY:  Now, I want to bring in our Chad Myers to tell us how this flood got so deadly so fast, seemingly with little or no warning. 
     Chad, can you tell us how this happened?  It's like nine inches of rain turned into a 20-foot rise, a flood rise, right?  
     (CROSSTALK) 
     CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  That's right.  And in Miami, in a flat place, a nine-inch rainfall make a nine-inch flood.  But when you have mountains to catch it, on each side of the mountain, and all of the sudden that water funnels down into the valley, because gravity works, it always does, you take the rain and you put it from one top -- one ridge to the other ridge and you funnel it into the river, that river is going to go up.  
     And that's what happened here.  If you look upstream, it's all just basically an entire basin.  The basin is filling with water.  The water is rushing down the hill, all the way into this river, and right into the campground that was there that we talked about here a little bit ago.  
     Let me show you what the governor was talking about in a minute here.  Kind of a crude graphic, but it gets the work -- gets the job done.  For the past seven days, the river has been at about three feet.  In three hours, the river went to 23 feet.  Now, here is what this river looks like.  This is from Google Earth.  This is on a normal day.  This is what a three-foot looks like on this river. Consider this now 20 feet higher than this.  
     Consider what was just a tranquil just water trickling by your campsite all of the sudden into a 20-foot wall of water, a raging -- as you called it earlier, a raging basic tsunami, although not the technical term -- Candy.
     CROWLEY:  Chad, thank you so much, as always.  
     CNN will continue to watch over this, following the story tonight.  We will bring you the very latest developments as we get them.  
     Up next: stunning news about the real amount of oil pouring into the Gulf.  The amount spewing out these last seven weeks may be twice what we thought.  The congressman who helped fight for your right to see these images joins me next.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     CROWLEY:  Our number-one national story, as it has been for weeks, the disaster in the Gulf.  As bad as everybody thought it was, we learned today the spill is much, much worse than first thought, at least twice as bad.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Forty-two million gallons shooting up through that well from the beginning.  Now we're talking about 89 million gallons of oil, more than eight times the Exxon Valdez disaster.       IRA LEIFER, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SANTA BARBARA:  No one should be shocked at whatever the number is.  It's -- it's reality. And we have to address that safely.  
     ADMIRAL THAD ALLEN, NATIONAL INCIDENT COMMANDER:  The fact of the matter is we're never going to know to a virtual certainty what that flow is until we can actually measure it through a pipe with no oil leakage, but in the meantime we need to continually refine these estimates.
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     CROWLEY:  Those new flow estimates, of course, only adding to the outrage against BP.  
     Next week, CEO Tony Hayward goes before Congress for what will undoubtedly be a serious grilling from lawmakers, including the man chairing those hearings, Democratic Congressman Ed Markey of Massachusetts.  I spoke with the congressman a short time ago.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
     CROWLEY:  You have been quite critical of BP, saying they have either been incompetent or they're lying.  I want you to listen just for a minute to what Admiral Thad Allen had to say.  He was asked today about BP and its CEO, Tony Hayward.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     ALLEN:  The fact of the matter is we have to have a cooperative productive relationship for this thing to work moving forward.  When I talk to him, I asked for answers, I give them.  You can characterize that as trust partnership cooperation, collaboration or whatever but this has to be a unified effort moving forward if we're going to get this thing solved. 
     QUESTION:  So, yes?
     ALLEN:  If you can call that trust, yes. 
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     CROWLEY:  Thad Allen, the administration's point man working with BP, working with Tony Hayward, trusts him.  Is that such a leap?  
     REP. EDWARD MARKEY (D), MASSACHUSETTS:  For me, it is.  
     CROWLEY:  Why?  
     MARKEY:  I believe that -- well, I believe that BP has either been lying or grossly incompetent from the very beginning.  
     Remember, going back a couple of years ago, they had to do a probabilistic risk assessment of the likelihood of an accident.  And they reached a conclusion that the likelihood was zero.  BP represented that the rig could never sink.  They're now saying that there are no underwater plumes of oil and chemicals that are floating under the surface in the Gulf.  
     I just don't think there is any reason to really trust them, because I do believe that they are trying to limit their liability, rather than protecting the livability of the Gulf.  
     CROWLEY:  Congressman, there is some question now as to whether it's all that productive to be beating up on BP so much.  Again, I want you to listen to something.  This was New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who really did stick up for BP this morning, at least in one way.  Here is what he said.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (I), MAYOR OF NEW YORK:  We're going after the heads of some of these companies.  The guy that runs BP didn't exactly go down there and blow up the well.  And what is more, if you want him to fix it, and they're the only ones with the expertise, I think I might wait to look -- assign blame.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     CROWLEY:  Mayor Bloomberg is a pretty good businessman.  He has been through a couple of crises in his life, both business and governmental.  
     Are we a little quick to be piling on BP at this point?  What is in it for them to be lying?  
     MARKEY:  Look it, look ii, the chairman of AIG and Lehman Brothers, in doing probabilistic risk assessments, both determined that there was zero risk that their companies could ever collapse. Are they responsible or not?  I would say they are.  
     The same thing is true here with BP.  This wasn't something that just happened overnight.  This is as a result of a long pattern of decisions made by BP that led to the point where the safety guidelines were being violated, where the representations made to the public with regard to the safety capacity to shut down the well, to ensure that it would not sink, that there would be no plumes under the water, that there would be proper response capacity to insure that the spill would not spread, none of that was true.  
     (CROSSTALK) 
     CROWLEY:  So, you don't think they -- I'm sorry.  You don't think that people, the human beings that run BP, that work for BP, you don't think they give a whit about safety, about the men who died, about the people whose livelihoods are now threatened?  You just don't think they cared, in the name of profit?  
     MARKEY:  I think that they engaged in boosterism, which led to complacency, and complacency leads to disaster.  This is a disaster. They cut corners on safety whenever they could.  They tried to turn their watchdog regulatory agency into a lap dog wherever they could.  
     Unfortunately, they were too successful.  And for their bottom line, for their shareholders, if they didn't have to spend the money on safety, if they didn't have to spend the money on preparation for cleaning up the spill, they did not do so.  
     And we see it every day in the faces of those people who live in the Gulf.  And criticism of the CEO of this company is warranted day in and day out, and no one should spare a word in being critical.  
     CROWLEY:  Congressman Ed Markey, this story unfortunately doesn't seem to be going away any time soon.  We will talk to you again, I'm sure.  Thank you so much.  
     MARKEY:  Thank you.  
     (END VIDEOTAPE) 
     CROWLEY:  To let you know, we have a standing invitation for a BP rep to appear on this program.  So far, after 53 days, no one from the company has done so.  A BP spokesman today blamed it on -- quote -- "logistics."  
     Coming up: word of what could be a major breakthrough in the Gulf Coast cleanup.  Does President Obama have a new plan to get the region back on its feet?  
     Also, politicians and pundits rush to BP's defense -- why some Brits are calling outrage over the oil spill disgraceful, crude, even bigoted.  The BP backlash -- next.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     CROWLEY:  One of the regular guests on this show who we have turned to throughout this oil spill crisis, historian Doug Brinkley, revealed what could be a major development in the government's response.  
     Brinkley told my colleague "A.C. 360" anchor Anderson Cooper that a highly placed administration source told him that President Obama plans to unveil a massive recovery plan for the coast during his return visit to the Gulf region next week.  Take a listen.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, "ANDERSON COOPER 360") 
     DOUGLAS BRINKLEY, PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN:  they are going to come out with a large Gulf recovery act.  
     This is a turning point.  There is an appetite on Capitol Hill for Gulf recovery act.  The Mississippi River is going to have to be redirected into the marshlands.  And BP and Transocean and other, you know, operations, Cameron, other companies are going to have to pay up to $10 billion and $15 billion for breaking national acts.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     CROWLEY:  With me now, Nicholas Wapshott, former New York bureau chief for "The Times of London" and author of "Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher: A Political Marriage," also Peter Beinart, senior political writer for TheDailyBeast.com and author of "The Icarus Syndrome: A History of American Hubris," and CNN political contributor James Carville.  
     James, I want to start with you.  
     We are now hearing about a Gulf recovery act.  Basically, it sounds to me like from your lips to the administration's ears.  This is the kind of thing that you have been talking about now, well, for more than the past 50 days, really, something that you have been talking about for years.  
     JAMES CARVILLE, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST:  Yes.  Hallelujah.  Amen. Thank you, President Obama.  We love you, if this is true.  We love this proposal.  
     CROWLEY:  So, this sounds like it is actually sort of beyond, as far as I understand it -- and, obviously, nothing has been announced yet, so, heaven only knows I don't want to speak for White House, but it sounds as though we are talking about something that will deal with the consumption of land and the use of land down there that has so hurt, not just Louisiana, but the rest of the Gulf states.  
     CARVILLE:  Yes.  If that is what he is talking about, it absolutely would.  And this is something that is so needed.  We lose the size of Manhattan every year down here.  
     And the implications of this are just enormous.  And as a result of this tragedy, if this focus -- this president does something like this, then he may be headed to Mount Rushmore.  
     (LAUGHTER) 
     CROWLEY:  Maybe he can get one of those states to turn Democratic in 2012 if he does that.  But we will talk about that later.
     (CROSSTALK) 
     CARVILLE:  I would sure help him in Louisiana, if this is what he does, absolutely.  
     (LAUGHTER) 
     CROWLEY:  OK.
     Peter, listen, here is the problem.  You know, great old idea, let's say everybody is behind it, but the economy is terrible. Everybody already thinks the government is overspending.  Is there the political will to get this kind of fund together?  It seems to me obviously that they will be taxing oil companies and that sort of thing.  But this sort of thing always ends up with some sort of government expense.  Can it fly?  
     PETER BEINART, THEDAILYBEAST.COM:  Yes, and the danger is -- you saw this with Hurricane Katrina, too.  You remember in the aftermath, there were this big talk about a Tennessee Valley Authority for the Gulf, after that, some kind of Marshall Plan.       As then, sometimes, as you get further away from it and, frankly, the news coverage turns to other things, then some of the urgency tends to run out.  And even if big promises are made, they're not followed through on.  
     But I think the advantage here is that you actually, unlike in the past administration, have an administration in place that believes that government can do good and big things.  The Republicans may not believe that, but, on the other hand, there are a lot of Republican members of Congress from this region who may overlook their general anti-government sentiment in this regard.  
     And if I think if you can -- if Obama can make something of a success in this, it will be another part of his larger agenda, along with health care and the stimulus, to try to show Americans that actually government can make significant, important changes for the good in society.  
     CROWLEY:  Nicholas, I want to turn to you.  
     Up to now, BP has been leading the cleanup effort.  Of course, that hasn't stopped the administration ripping into them.  Now some of the people are saying, enough is enough.  
     Listen to what House Republican Whip Eric Cantor told "The Financial Times."  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     REP. ERIC CANTOR (R-VA), HOUSE MINORITY WHIP:  What we're seeing out of the administration, which has been utter outrage, blame, villainization, cursing on TV about what is going on.  
     QUESTION:  You're referring to the kick ass, the kick ass...  
     (CROSSTALK) 
     CANTOR:  Right.  And, instead of that, let's try and have some level-headed leadership.  How does that help?  There is going to be plenty of time for demonizing, punishing, what have you.  OK.  We have got to stop the gushing of oil.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     CROWLEY:  So, these are the guys you are relying on to do the cleanup.  And you're sort of going after them.  We heard Mayor Bloomberg say something pretty similar, well, there will be plenty of time to figure out exactly what happened and who is exactly to blame.  
     Is it the best strategy, and tell us a little bit about the British reaction.  
     NICHOLAS WAPSHOTT, FORMER BUREAU CHIEF, "THE TIMES OF LONDON": Well, the British are feeling pretty bruised right now.  It's unfortunate that the word British of course is in the name of the company.  As somebody said to me, imagine what would happen if it was called French petroleum.  It would be even worse.  
     (LAUGHTER) 
     WAPSHOTT:  But the problem is, of course, that this is a worldwide economy we live in now.  It's called British Petroleum, but it's 40 percent owned by the Brits, but it's 40 percent owned by American investors.  
     Of the 80,000 people working for BP, 30,000 of them are working in America.  So, it's American jobs, too, which are being sacrificed here in terms of victimization of this.  
     CROWLEY:  You have had some amazing headlines.  We know that it's a British company.  We also know that, tomorrow, the president is going to be talking to the new British prime minister.  
     All right, just a sampling of headlines, "Obama Behaving Disgracefully Over BP."  "Backlash Grows to Anti-British Rhetoric." "Barack Obama's Anti-British Prejudice."
     Wow.
     WAPSHOTT:  Wow, yes.
     CROWLEY:  It's really a good thing it isn't the French.  
     (LAUGHTER) 
     (CROSSTALK) 
     CROWLEY:  What -- what -- realistically, these are two close allies.  This can't do much harm to the relationship.  
     WAPSHOTT:  Absolutely.  Britain is America's strongest ally when it comes to the military.  We -- America can depend upon no one else as they can depend upon the Brits, as they did in Iraq.  
     And, so, it seems a little -- I think it's upset some people back at home.  You know, they think that, somehow, this has been unfairly victimized.  But, hey, this is the real world, and this is real politics.  When somebody is back at home getting in trouble, you know, we kick as, too.  
     (LAUGHTER) 
     CROWLEY:  James, you were among the first to sort of implore the president to show that he is in charge, to say to BP "I'm your daddy," I believe is the quote.  
     CARVILLE:  Right.  Yes, yes, absolutely.  
     (CROSSTALK) 
     CROWLEY:  Is he going about this the right way?  Do you feel like he ought to ease up a little?  
     CARVILLE:  Of course not.  Of course not.  
     And it has nothing to do with -- if it's a British company.  The reaction would be the same.  We're not anti-British.  We love the British.  And as far as Congressman Cantor and Mayor Bloomberg go, they're serious people.  Just think for a moment.  Eleven people were blown up.  They were operating the rig unsafely.  They had 700 violations against it.  
     Their application, it looks like they just copied -- just took it from something in Alaska.  They won't approve anybody.  They're keeping our media out.  They're not reimbursing people.  They're nickel-and-diming everybody down here.  And we're not supposed to criticize them?  I mean, that's patently absurd on its face.  
     CROWLEY:  Peter Beinart, James Carville, Nicholas Wapshott, thank you all for much for joining us.  I appreciate it.  
     CARVILLE:  Thank you.  
     CROWLEY:  Still ahead, if the spill is dragging President Obama down, it seems to be lifting up another politician -- why some say Bobby Jindal's leadership in the Gulf could put him back on top in the 2012 race for the White House -- that story next.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     CROWLEY:  For all the finger-pointing in the wake of the oil spill, one man is getting almost universal praise.  Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal.  Whether battling BP, challenging the president, or reassuring local residents, Jindal's efforts are winning high marks with voters and Republican Party leaders.
     Tonight, CNN's Jessica Yellin reports on the former GOP wiz kid suddenly back in the national spotlight.
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     JESSICA YELLIN, CNN NATL. POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Even before oil hit Louisiana shores, Governor Bobby Jindal was front and center, taking on BP.
     GOV. BOBBY JINDAL (R), LOUISIANA:  I share these concerns that BP's current resources are not adequate.
     YELLIN:  Demanding action.
     JINDAL:  We need more urgency.  We need a better plan.
     YELLIN:  And getting results.
     JINDAL:  We have just received word from the White House that they are going to require, they are going to require BP to fund the five remaining segments.
     (APPLAUSE)
     YELLIN:  This week, he laid into President Obama.
     JINDAL:  We've got a clear message for the White House, a clear message for the president, a clear message for the federal government. We want them to do their jobs.
     YELLIN:  It seems Governor Bobby Jindal, once a rising Republican star, is back.
     REIHAM SALAM, CONSERVATIVE ANALYST:  Here's a guy who understands the nitty-gritty of policy issues down to the very granular level. And when it comes to berating federal officials, when it comes to actually knowing the nuts and bolts of a crisis situation like this one, that's where Bobby Jindal comes off the strongest.
     YELLIN:  Quite a turnaround.  Remember just last year Jindal's national career was on life support after he delivered a disastrous Republican response to the president's State of the Union speech.
     JINDAL:  To solve our current problems, Washington must lead. But the way to lead is not to raise taxes, not to just put more money and power in the hands of Washington politicians.
     YELLIN:  Even conservative pundits panned it as amateurish, insane, a disaster for the party.  And the jokes comparing him to Kenneth the page from NBC's "30 Rock" began.
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I need to talk to you about an urgent page- related matter.
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     YELLIN:  These days signs point to political redemption, maybe even a run for president?  That's something he dismissed in an interview with John King.
     JINDAL:  I've got my hands full down here.  We've got to protect our state.  We've got plenty of work to do in Louisiana.
     YELLIN:  At just 39 years old, Jindal has plenty of time to think about the future, which is exactly what analysts say he needs.
     (on camera):  What should he do next?
     SALAM:  Well, I think that he has actually a pretty good plan. What he ought to do is build up his credentials at home and run for reelection in 2011, and keep his powder dry.
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     YELLIN:  Now, Candy, the political calendar would make it tough for him to run for president in 2012.  That's because, as you know, first he has to be reelected governor in November of 2011.  And if he were to run for president, he'd have to start campaigning the very next month.  So it really seems far more likely that if he does run, he'd wait at least until 2016, although we've both seen stranger things happen -- Candy.
     CROWLEY:  We have indeed.  Jessica Yellin, thanks.
     Back with me to look at Bobby Jindal's reversal of fortune, Peter Beinart and James Carville.
     James, is Bobby Jindal back?  Has he redeemed himself?
     JAMES CARVILLE, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST:  Well, I think he's done a good job.  I've been out with him and I think he's -- people in the state feel like that he'd been, you know, articulate and talking about the things that we need.  The truth of the matter is the state doesn't have a lot of resources to deal with something of this magnitude. It's really the federal government as the same thing it was the fact in Katrina.  That's why we have the federal government.  I've never understood these people that say that they want to cripple the federal government here.
     But yes, I think he has done a good job.  He's been very articulate about what the state needs.  And he's been smart the way he's handled this.
     CROWLEY:  Well, and Peter, James brings up really the biggest problem for a conservative small government kind of governor.  Can you translate the profile he has in this gulf crisis into becoming a national political figure, even though we know as a conservative you're kind of for smaller government?
     PETER BEINART, DAILYBEAST.COM:  I think right now in this semi psychotic tea party moment in the Republican Party, the answer is probably no.  But I think over the longer term, if the Republican Party is ever going to actually get back into the White House, they are going to have to have national politicians who are associated with government confidence.  And being associated with government confidence and being associated with government confidence in doing something like this is incompatible with the idea of basically trying to eliminate the regulatory apparatus of government.  So I think eventually after the Republican Party, frankly, loses another presidential election or two, I think they probably will start to look for people like Bobby Jindal who have the reputation for government competence.  Remember, that's essentially what destroyed the presidency of George W.  Bush.
     CROWLEY:  Peter Beinart and James Carville doing double duty for us tonight.
     CARVILLE:  Right.
     CROWLEY:  Thank you very much.
     Next, a survivor of the deadly Deepwater Horizon explosion speaks out.  The terrifying ordeal, and new accusations of profit before safety in the days before the blast.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)     CROWLEY:  With all the awful news coming out of the gulf, we're also hearing amazing stories of survival from the oil rig explosion itself.  One worker describes how all hell broke loose as he was sleeping.  CNN's Abbie Boudreau reports on his frightening hours and the wife waiting at home.
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     ABBIE BOUDREAU, CNN SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS UNIT CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Never did they think their new marriage would be tested like this.  And so soon.  Six months after their wedding, Sara Stone would find herself waiting to find out if her husband were dead or alive.
     SARA STONE, STEPHEN'S WIFE:  My phone call was that there has been an emergency evacuation on the rig.  There's nothing else that we can tell you at this point.  I did not know what was happening until I went home and I turned on the TV and saw that the rig was on fire.
     BOUDREAU:  Stephen Stone was scheduled to head home.  He had one more day on the rig.  He'd already spent 20 days on the Deepwater Horizon as a Transocean employee.  And after working a 12-hour shift, he was in his room, sound asleep.
     (on camera):  So you were sleeping and the explosion woke you up?
     STEPHEN STONE, TRANSOCEAN EMPLOYEE:  Yes.
     BOUDREAU:  And then what do you remember next?
     STEPHEN STONE:  Just running.  I didn't see any of the flames until I got outside.
     BOUDREAU:  Did you think that it could be over?
     STEPHEN STONE:  Yes, I mean, you can't really see anything like that and not expect possibly to die.  So it was kind of wait for it, you know.
     BOUDREAU:  Can you explain what goes through your mind when you're thinking that everything is out of your control at that moment?
     STEPHEN STONE:  Just sadness.  Just thought about her.  Just, you know, braced for impact.
     BOUDREAU (voice-over):  Stephen had made it to a lifeboat, and then to a nearby supply vessel.  For eight hours, he watched the oil rig burn.  Back in Houston, his wife Sara was calling hospitals, hoping her husband wasn't injured or worse.
     S. STONE:  I finally was able to get a hold of the emergency response team.  And they informed me that he was on the OK list, that where they'd be taken to.
     BOUDREAU:  She took the first flight out, but 10 hours later, still no word.  Fifteen hours would turn into 20.     S. STONE:  The main question that all of us had was, are they really on that boat?  You know, why can't we speak to them?
     BOUDREAU:  Finally, 28 hours after the explosion, Sara was reunited with her husband.
     (on camera):  What was that moment like?
     S. STONE:  It started out as the worst day of my life, and it ended up as the best.  So I couldn't -- I think we probably hugged each other for as long as we could.
     BOUDREAU (voice-over):  Safe and reunited, Steven began to replay the events leading up to the disaster in his mind.
     STEPHEN STONE:  At least four times I can remember maybe four or five where we had to stop drilling and like pump down pretty much the ceiling (ph).
     BOUDREAU:  He says they may have been drilling too fast where the well was unstable, which caused cracks to form in the rock they were drilling into.  He says more precautions should have been taken. Stephen says he tried to be safe on the rig.  He says there were even times where he stopped operations to make things safer.  But there were consequences.
     STEPHEN STONE:  I had been called in to talk to one of the senior guys for Transocean.  They were saying my work performance was slipping.  And I was like -- you know, I always thought I tried to pace myself.  You know, we're in here 12 hours.  Try to pace yourself and not wear yourself out and think about what I'm doing and work safe, you know.  As soon as I said that, it was like, well, don't use safety as a crutch.
     BOUDREAU (on camera):  So safety is important up until the project gets slowed down, and then all of a sudden not so much?
     STEPHEN STONE:  When they start losing money, they were always kind of in a rush because that's what's making the money for the rig. That's when mistakes were more likely to happen is when people are rushing.
     BOUDREAU (voice-over):  Stephen doesn't think he'll step foot on an oil rig ever again.  He is just glad he grabbed the one most important possession he had on the Deepwater Horizon before it sank.
     S. STONE:  This amazing person, you know just decided to go get his wedding ring from his room.  I mean, it's just kind of really blown my mind as far as who he is.
     STEPHEN STONE:  Newly married.  It's important, you know.  Out of all the things I had out there, this is the most important to me, you know.
     (END VIDEOTAPE)     BOUDREAU:  Stephen still officially works for Transocean, but he's filed a lawsuit against them and the other oil companies who operated on the rig.  Transocean has not responded to the specific allegations in court.  The other companies named in the suit have either denied the allegations or have also not formally responded.  We contacted Transocean and BP.  They both turned down our request for an interview and have not responded to our request for comment.
     Abbie Boudreau, CNN, Atlanta.
     CROWLEY:  Coming up, a teenager sailing around the world is stranded at sea tonight.  When will help arrive, and why was she allowed to take the dangerous journey alone in the first place?
     And the latest on that flash flood that leveled an Arkansas campground.  At least 16 people were killed.  Dozens are still missing.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     CROWLEY:  Still ahead, the dramatic rescue of a 16-year-old lost at sea.  A look at what went wrong, and who will pay for the rescue.
     But first, Joe Johns is here with some of the other stories we're following tonight -- Joe.
     JOE JOHNS, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT:  Hey, Candy.  At least 16 people died in an Arkansas campground after a wall of water came down on them in the middle of the night.  Dozens are missing.  The Red Cross says there could have been as many as 300 people in the campground when the heavy rains flooded the area.  A short time ago, Arkansas Governor Mike Beebe appearing on this program told us the records of those staying at the campground were lost in the flood, and that portable cell phone towers are being brought in to try to connect with the survivors in the remote wilderness.
     Joran van der Sloot was charged today with first-degree murder and robbery in the death of 21-year-old Peruvian Stephany Flores.  The Dutch native confessed to the murder earlier this week.  He also told officials he knows what happened to Natalee Holloway, the American teen who disappeared in Aruba five years ago, but he'll only reveal that information to Aruban police.
     And the World Cup, the planet's greatest and most watched sports spectacle is now underway in South Africa.  Screaming fans.  The month-long tournament marks the World Cup's first ever visit to the continent of Africa.  World champion Italy will be defending the title they won four years ago.  Tomorrow, the United States faces Great Britain.  Now, Candy, that should be a pretty interesting match-up, wouldn't you think?
     CROWLEY:  Absolutely.  You know, even if you're not into soccer, you can really get drawn into this over the next month or so.  It looks exciting.
     JOHNS:  There is no question, it's mesmerizing.  You can't stop watching.
     CROWLEY:  It is, it is.  In the meantime we'll work, but we'll watch where we are.  Thanks.
     JOHNS:  You bet.
     CROWLEY:  Coming up, a teenager lost at sea, found, but yet to be rescued.  She's just barely old enough to have a driver's permit.  Yet she's navigating a solo sailing trip around the world.  We'll have the latest next.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     CROWLEY:  Tonight, rescue teams are racing to reach a 16-year-old sailor whose boat is adrift in the middle of the Indian Ocean.  Abby Sunderland was on a mission to become the youngest person to sail around the world alone.  It was not to be.
     Abby's journey began in Marina del Rey, California in January. Last month, she sailed past Cape Town, South Africa.  But yesterday she hit rough waters and sent out a distress signal.  Now a rescue ship is on its way to save her.  And so with her seemingly safe, the big question tonight is for her parents.  What were they thinking? CNN's Ted Rowlands reports.
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     TED ROWLANDS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  This photo taken by an Australian search and rescue team shows Abby Sunderland's stranded boat in the middle of the Indian Ocean.  The boat is damaged, but Abby is inside, alive and well.  Wonderful news for her family who spent almost 18 excruciating hours waiting to find out if Abby was OK.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We're absolutely over the moon.  We're very, very happy.  And we're very excited that the Australian search and rescue jumped on this right away.
     ROWLANDS (on camera):  The question many people have is how did a 16-year-old end up all by herself in the middle of the Indian Ocean?
     (voice-over):  The answer with her parents' blessing.  Listen to Abby's mother.
     MARIANNE SUNDERLAND, MOTHER:  We know the risks that are involved.  And you know, with technology, the choice of boat, having a meteorologist following her trip and guiding her, routing her, you minimize as many risks as you can, and you know, you know there's always a possibility of some kind of accident, like Abby had.
     ROWLANDS:  Abby isn't the only Sunderland child to make this trip.  Her parents also let their teenaged son Zac sail around the world just last year.  The video log of his journey highlights the dangers of the open seas.
     ZAC SUNDERLAND, BROTHER:  I've just been through my first big squall out here.  And it was crazy.  It was pouring with rain for like five minutes, and pouring is like filling up the cockpit, water getting everywhere.  The whole boat just got soaked.
     ROWLANDS:  Zac Sunderland had no doubt his sister was ready for the journey.
     Z. SUNDERLAND:  She is a very good sailor.  She's obviously got what it takes.  She's a single hand, you know, that inner desire to just push through the hard times.  And yes, I mean, crazy stuff happens, especially in the Indian Ocean, the southern Indian Ocean. And so there's nothing you can really do about it.
     ABBY SUNDERLAND, SAILOR:  It's designed for speed and safety.
     ROWLANDS:  Abby, no surprise, sounded pretty confident herself when she set out.  Here she is giving a tour of her boat, "Wild Eyes," for "Soundings," a boating Web site.  For a while it was smooth sailing.  But Thursday, about 2,000 miles off the coast of Madagascar, Abby hit a storm.  First her satellite phone failed.  Then she activated two distress beacons.
     JEFF CASHER, SUPPORT TEAM:  Now we know we've got a real problem. What is it?  Is she OK?  Is she hurt?  Is the boat sinking?
     ROWLANDS:  At the time the nearest boat from Abby's location was more than 40 hours away.  So Australian search and rescue chartered a Qantas airbus passenger jet to locate Abby.  They talked to her by radio and found out she was OK.  Several vessels are heading to the area where Abby's boat is drifting.  As it stands now, the Australian government has volunteered to pay for Abby's safe return, and that's not sitting well with some Aussie taxpayers.
     PETER STEFANOVIC, CH. 9 AUSTRALIA:  A lot of Australians are really annoyed that they have to pay for a recovery mission that probably shouldn't have happened in the first place.
     ROWLANDS:  And this is how one family's adventure turns into a costly international rescue effort.
     Ted Rowlands, CNN, Thousand Oaks, California.
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     CROWLEY:  "LARRY KING LIVE" starts in just a few minutes but up next, "The Right Stuff." You may not recognize her name, but you're about to find out how a remarkable athlete broke a barrier and made history, when we come back.
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     CROWLEY:  Every Friday we try to select someone who stands out from the week's event, someone with the right stuff.  Tonight, we choose an athlete who has made history.  She's won every major competition in her sport, and broke a gender barrier by winning one of the most prestigious men's competitions in their league.  Simply put, she's taken the sport of bowling by storm.  So why doesn't anybody know her name?
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     KELLY KULICK, WON MEN'S PROFESSIONAL BOWLING ASSOCIATION TITLE: Hi.  I'm Kelly Kulick.  I'm the first woman ever to win the Men's Professional Bowling Association title.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And Kulick celebrates history.
     KULICK:  This year has been one magic ride.  It's almost like every time I win, I want to go to Disney World.
     One time, one time, yes.
     KULICK:  In the past year alone, I think I've won a total of six titles.  I won the USBC Queens.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  There you go.  She's done it.  Kelly Kulick has won her second Queens title.
     KULICK:  I won the women's U.S. Open.  The two major championships women have the opportunity to compete in each year.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  How about that.  Kelly Kulick's accomplishment, unprecedented in women's bowling.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It's been a remarkable role.  And she doesn't seem to be losing momentum.  She's just completely destroyed the competition now in some very important tournaments.
     KULICK:  The sweetest victory probably would have to be the Tournament of Champions.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Let's see if she can do it.
     KULICK:  To be the first woman eligible to bowl in it is already the victory, but then to win it was just the true fairy tale story.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  How about that, America.
     KULICK:  Once I was in the final match, I guess every athlete has that moment in their career when they're in the zone.  And I was the most focused.  I was the most determined.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Why not.  Why not.
     KULICK:  The crowd was standing on its seat.  The moment I released the ball, you could just hear them come on, Kelly, come on, ball.  They wanted to knock down the pins themselves.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Put a whooping on the boys.
     KULICK:  Everyone says go grab the trophy, go grab the trophy. And the first thing I did was run over to my mother.  For you.  I love you.  And I handed it to her, and I said I love you.  And I said this is for you.
     Thank you.     All the sportswriters, all the media coverage that I gained said you should have sponsors knocking at your door.  You should have agents just tearing the door down to get to you.  Not one of them contacted me.
     FILIP BONDY, SPORTS REPORTER, "NY DAILY NEWS":  Yes, you would think here's an attractive woman who's gone and defeated the men in the biggest stage that is available to them, and yet we haven't seen the breakthrough endorser yet.  Wheaties, Nike, Adidas, there are all sorts of potential endorsers out there.  How hard is it really to watch this tape to see her grasping the bowling ball on that last roll and saying, you know, this is history.
     KULICK:  I've always dreamed of a year like the one I've had.  It really has been a magic carpet ride.  And I just hope it never ends.
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     CROWLEY:  That's it.  "LARRY KING LIVE" starts right now.

