
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired February 10, 2011 - 22:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Good evening, everyone, 5:00 a.m. in Cairo Friday morning, a new day, but an old dictator still clings to power.  
     The Mubarak regime would have you believe that he's transferred nearly almost all his power to his vice president.  Now, that may be true, but as these protesters in Liberation Square will tell you, his vice president is cut from the same hard stone as Mubarak.  And Mubarak himself refuses to step down.  
     At this hour, a dictator and his regime have made clear they do not intend to give up real power.  And what has also been made clear is that the peaceful protesters are not willing to give up the small square of freedom they have bought with their blood, the small square of freedom that too many have already died for and others still may -- 5:00 a.m. in Cairo, and the battle lines are clear.  
     Peaceful protesters are still in Liberation Square.  Others are standing outside the state television building.  Others are at the presidential palace, though their numbers now are small.  Hundreds of thousands came to Liberation Square hours ago believing they were going to witness a dictator resign.  
     The army hinted this morning it would happen.  President Obama talked as if it already had happened.  Then came the speech, Mubarak handing over power to his vice president and longtime henchman, but not stepping down, instead digging in, claiming credit for resisting foreign pressure, claiming his regime was trying to end chaos help the country's economy, even though he is the one who shut down the banks and shut down the Internet and shut down the trains.
     The man who has tried to manufacture a crisis so he could be hailed as a hero continues to lie to his own people.  In Liberation Square, those people erupted in anger that their president seemed to dismiss them as children.  The insults continued a short time later when Vice President Suleiman when on television telling protesters to go home, blaming not the corruption and brutality of his regime for the protests, but satellite news stations, agitators and others.  
     There was rage, but there was not violence, no, not yet.  It is 5:00 a.m. Friday, a day off in the Arab world.  In the next few hours, we could see the biggest protests yet.  Late tonight, the White House weighed in, issuing a statement from President Obama, a direct rebuttal to the lies being spread by Mubarak and Suleiman.       "Too many Egyptians," the president said, "remain unconvinced that the government is serious about a genuine transition to democracy.  The Egyptian government must put forward a credible, and unequivocal concrete path toward genuine democracy, and they have not yet seized that opportunity."
     We're following all the developments in this two-hour edition of 360.  Joining us first from Cairo, CNN's Ben Wedeman and Ivan Watson, also           protester and actor Khalid Abdalla.  Also, you might know him from his lead role in the movie "The Kite Runner."  And in Washington, Professor Fouad Ajami of the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies.  
     Ben, just past 5:00 a.m. right now.  What is the latest?  Where are the protesters now?  
     BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, the protesters, of course, Anderson are still in Tahrir Square, some of them sleeping in their tents under blankets.  There are some protesters in front of state TV, not a large number, and, of course, state TV, as you know, is ringed by army tanks.  
     Some of the protesters, at this point not a large number, are near the presidential palace, but they can't get too close to that either because of the large number of tanks, armored personnel carriers, and also the presidential guard that is guarding the president.  
     So, they have spread out a bit, but, by and large, the kind of onslaught against the state TV that we were expecting didn't happen. People bracing basically for the coming hours, possibly after midday prayers.  The square behind me could be filled with people.  And we're expecting demonstrations, not just here in Cairo, but in all major Egyptian cities -- Anderson.  
     COOPER:  Fouad, as you watched the day unfold, your thoughts?  
     FOUAD AJAMI, PROFESSOR OF MIDDLE EASTERN STUDIES, JOHNS HOPKINS SCHOOL OF ADVANCED INTERNATIONAL STUDIES:  I have to tell you, Anderson, are not mine, but they are borrowed from a good friend of mine, one of our country's finest essays.
      Leon Wieseltier just sent me a note, and I thought I would share it with you and our audience for its remarkable insight.  These are not my words again.  It's Leon Wieseltier. 
     Mubarak is a truly dangerous and stupid man, and the people in the square seem even more golden.  And it's hard for me to shake the feeling that a deadly confrontation is in the works.  The angels of the Arab world and the demons of the Arab world are locked into combat.  So the angels and the demonstrations are locked into combat. In that square are the people who want freedom.  Against them, arrayed them are the forces of this despot who could have given his country the one gift after 30 years, the one gift of a graceful exit, and of an acceptance that his regime has collapsed.       He couldn't do this, and he wouldn't do this.  And I think the next period is, for me, full of foreboding, and, of course, for the Egyptians who are there, full of peril.  
     COOPER:  Was it a grand just misreading of the situation that Mubarak and Suleiman came out and made the announcement today, or can they simply not imagine giving up power?  
     AJAMI:  Well, you know, I think it was very interesting.  
     I think even -- look at the White House.  It has all at its disposal, this incredible network of information.  And they expected Mubarak to step down.  Not on the same level of any importance, I sat down and penned a kind of an end, a farewell to the man called the last pharaoh, that Egypt is about to know the world of freedom and be rid of this man.  
     He, of course, disappointed one and all.  And I think he did it intentionally.  There was a provocative intent in what Mubarak has done.  He raised the expectations and then he dashed them.  I remain worried that he's preparing for a showdown and he's preparing for a bloodbath.  It's really hard to escape that conclusion.  
     COOPER:  Ivan, many observers hours ago were saying that they expected the protesters to erupt in violence, to be upset.  I think consistently we have seen people, outside observes, miss or underestimate the intelligence and the foresight of these protesters who have defied expectations virtually every single day.  
     They have remained calm and peaceful, Ivan.  
     IVAN WATSON, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Anderson, I talked to one of the organizers at the initial protests yesterday.  And he said one of the founding philosophies of this movement was passive resistance and peaceful protest.  And we're seeing that tonight.  
     Yes, there were outbursts of anger right after Hosni Mubarak's speech, and some people vowed to march towards the palace.  But right now, what we're seeing is a massive sleep-in here in Tahrir Square.  I see hundreds of men in one stretch of sidewalk that have all pulled out blankets.  And they're all piled up next to each other like sardines.  
     There are many people who have never spent the night here before who simply decided after the speech to bed down under little more than a flimsy blanket.  This is families, this is men, this is women right on the sidewalks, right on the streets.  We already had a tent city here, but it has grown dramatically with the number of people here.  
     And another fascinating change, that even before Mubarak spoke, I saw men bringing in plywood and boards, and they started building shower stalls and latrines.  They are digging in.  They evidently did not expect, some of these people, for Mubarak to step down, and they're just planning to stay here and make this enclave of revolution much more permanent.  
     COOPER:  Right.  
     Khalid, you have been among the protesters.  You are one of the protesters.  Did you expect Mubarak to step down?  What was your reaction during the speech and what do you anticipate in the hours ahead?  
     KHALID ABDALLA, ACTOR/ACTIVIST:  Yes, like everyone else, I was full of the same anticipation.  
     I was flying with delight the idea of him going.  And of course there was a massive sense of disappointment when his speech came.  I was standing at the time next to a man whose brother had died last week, and he just started screaming about his brother and had to be calmed down -- this took quite a long time -- by the people around me.
     There was a hell of a lot of anger, and you could -- you did begin to feel the potential of violence in the air.  And, I mean, Mubarak's speech I think was a massive provocation.  It was a massive provocation, not least because -- because there is the potential for a bloodbath, or at least that's what it felt like, especially since a lot of people decided that they wanted to go to the presidential palace.  
     It's like, he's asking us to step it up.  And we remain a peaceful protests.  And there's this question hanging over us, well, hanging over a lot of people here, is, you know, he seems to be completely deaf to the overwhelming will of his people.  
     And, as you say, I think tomorrow is going to be absolutely huge. Today was already avalanching.  I mean, it was extraordinary.  I went on a little -- I went on the march which started outside the (INAUDIBLE) union.  And it started with 500 people.  And then, suddenly, we found three or four other marches by other unions.  And we were walking around the streets, and there was rain and thunder.
     And, despite that, from 500, we had suddenly become thousands. And I expect that to happen tomorrow.  I expect this extraordinary -- extraordinarily will of these people to keep fighting until they get -- until they get what they want.  
     And, I mean, the other thing to say, really, is, as well, there was Mubarak's speech, but there was Omar Suleiman's speech as well, which was paltry.  It was a few minutes long, and if that was his sort of graceful acceptance of taking over the presidency, it was absolutely pathetic.  This is a man that apparently wants to lead us for the next six months toward democratic elections.  It's a joke. It's just -- it's offensive.
     COOPER:  Khalid Abdalla, thank you for joining us.  
     Everyone, stay where you are.  
     Former National Security Adviser Stephen Hadley is going to join us after the break, when we turn to what happened today at the White House as well, and how Washington and seemingly the rest of the world was led to believe we would be watching Mubarak depart today.  That certainly didn't happen.  
     Also, throughout this next two hours, we continue, as we have every night, revealing the lies of the Mubarak regime.  We have heard continued lies today from Vice President Suleiman, continued lies from Mubarak, painting these demonstrators as outside agitators, as agents of Israel or Hamas or Hezbollah or some combination thereof, blaming satellite news channels for everything that is going on.  We reveal the lies.  
     Also, the proof of torture and beatings that continue by Egyptian authorities, still happening -- we are going to talk to one reporter caught up in Hosni Mubarak's campaign of terror, rounded up, blindfolded, held while fellow prisoners were tortured, electrocuted with shocks.  He heard it with his own ears.  He's not afraid to speak.  Fear has been defeated.  There is no turning back.  
     Egypt's story continues when we come back.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I didn't care if I lose something, because I already don't have anything.  But, nowadays, I care about Egypt, and, nowadays, I love Egypt.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     COOPER:  People in the square saying that man saying later on he's ready to die for freedom.  
     And someone else quoted, saying, give me liberty or give me death.  
     Coming up on sunrise in Cairo, Egyptians getting ready for perhaps the biggest day of protests yet.  After Mubarak defied expectations, said he's not leaving office, to say it took Washington by surprise would be probably understating it, an official telling us late tonight that there were -- quote -- "some very real indications that Mubarak would step down," so much so, earlier this afternoon, President Obama was already hinting at a post-Mubarak Egypt.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  We are following today's events in Egypt very closely.  And we'll have more to say as this plays out.  But what is absolutely clear is that we are witnessing history unfold.  It's a moment of transformation that's taking place because the people of Egypt are calling for change.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     COOPER:  Well, it didn't happen, the same official telling us -- quote -- "It's entirely impossible to get into the head of one man who seems to be making all the decisions.  People like Hosni Mubarak," the official said, "are capable of changing their minds."     As we mentioned at the top, the White House is not pleased.  The question is, were they played?  
     Joining us now, Stephen Hadley, national security adviser from 2005 through 2009.  Currently, he's a senior adviser for international affairs at the United States Institute of Peace.  
     Was this a major miscalculation, you think, by the Mubarak regime?  
     STEPHEN HADLEY, FORMER U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER:  I think that's the kindest thing you can say about it.  Whether it was a setup, if you will, or a provocation, we don't know.  I think the best you can say...
     COOPER:  Do you think it's possible it was, a provocation?  
     HADLEY:  I really don't know, and we won't know.  
     But I think the core thing is that it's a real misreading of the situation.  This is a speech in terms of substance that, if it had been given 10 days ago, it might have been well-received.  But to give it now and then to permit expectations to get raised to the level they were was a huge mistake.  
     Something like this, you want low expectations.  You want to exceed those expectations and that gets you ahead of the crisis.  They did just the reverse, and it put them behind the crisis.  And it also narrowed dramatically the options that are available now to the Mubarak administration going forward.  
     COOPER:  They also, the vice president, Suleiman, President Mubarak, continue to propagate these lies which they have been spreading for more than two weeks now, saying that these are outside agitators, that these are agents of Israel or Hamas or Hezbollah, that they're being paid, that it's foreign media, it's satellite news channels.  
     And it was interesting, because Vice President Suleiman had talked in previous days about these protesters and the media belittling Egypt.  And, today, President Obama in his most recent statement went against that directly, saying that these protesters represent the greatness of the Egyptian people and that they broadly are representative of the Egyptian people.  
     Do you think -- it seems to me that the people in that square and an increasing number of people who haven't been going to the square are seeing now the lies that they have been told, not just in the last few weeks, but for many years.  
     HADLEY:  I think that's right.  Anyone who has watched the performance of these heroes in the square, and we can only admire their courage as they fight for their freedom, knows that it is not Hezbollah.  This is not Hamas.  
     This is an upwelling of the Egyptian people.  I think it was positive that President Mubarak said the things he said in the speech. Again, it's about 10 days too late.  And, unfortunately, there was also a certain amount of -- sort of a patronizing tone and also a defiant tone.  And I think the tone he needed to strike was something very different, viewing the -- with admiration what these people are doing.
     And the narrative needed to be not Mubarak refuses to step down. The narrative needed to be, Mubarak is actually stepping down from power, giving over his authority to a vice president who would then lead a movement for national reconciliation in preparation for elections.  That was the -- that's what needed to come out of that speech today.  And, in fact, just the opposite came out and it was a huge setback.  
     COOPER:  Obviously, it's going to be critical, the role of the Egyptian military in the hours and days ahead.  
     Do we have an indication of where they are in this thing? Because I know they are still probably the most credible organization left in Egypt, although they have stood by and watched violence erupt and allowed pro-Mubarak protesters to attack anti-Mubarak protesters. But, by and large, they are still viewed with respect by the protesters.  
     HADLEY:  They have played this actually very shrewdly.  
     The initial reaction and response to the crowd was not by the army, but the central security forces that led the crackdown, the crackdown that was not successful.  Then the army came in, basically to, as they began to say protect the protesters and protect the people.  Their statement today was interesting, that they were going to safeguard the nation, but they were also supporting the legitimate aspirations of the people.  
     They have played this very smart, in a very smart way today.  I think they probably have some foreboding about tomorrow, because I think the last thing the army wants to do would be to have to crack down on the protesters and forfeit all the goodwill that they have accumulated from those people in the square.  
     COOPER:  Mr. Hadley, stay with us.  We are going to be coming back with you throughout this program.  
     And as I said, we are on until the midnight hour here, until 7:00 a.m. Cairo time.  
     I want to bring back Fouad Ajami now bring in John King, Jill Dougherty and Arwa Damon, who is in Cairo.  
     John, it's staggering to me.  You have President Mubarak making that defiant speech, then the Egyptian ambassador to the U.S. calling in to CNN to say that actually Vice President Suleiman is the de facto president.  It's remarkable you can have a dictator of a country and his vice president both make speeches, and still people not really understand what they are saying.       JOHN KING, HOST, "JOHN KING, USA":  Well, and, Anderson, that is a key point, because, as Steve Hadley just noted, if you look at everything the president said, President Mubarak I'm speaking of, and if you look at the documents sent to the Egyptian parliament, U.S. officials tell you there is some sign of progress in taking power away from President Mubarak, handing it off to the vice president and being in a process.  
     However, at the White House, what they're tonight is because that speech was so vague and because it was so defiant, President Mubarak's tone was so defiant, that nobody on the streets of Cairo trusts him tonight, and I can tell you this, no one at the White House or the State Department trusts him tonight.  
     So what they want him to do is go back on television, to be much more clear, to say, I am stepping aside.  
     And here's one thing in the president's statement that's very important tonight.  Number one, he does say he wants the Egyptian president, the government to be more clear.  Number two, he makes clear don't blame foreigners.  These are your people, young and old from every class of society.  They want you to go.  The White House statement makes both those points.  
     Then it says they must immediately demonstrate irreversible political change, because what the White House fears is, sure, President Mubarak has given some powers away, but he still has the authority to take them back, Anderson.  
     COOPER:  Fouad, it's interesting, because two weeks ago, Mohamed ElBaradei, one opposition figure with an arguable amount of support in the country, but still an opposition figure and a clear voice, was saying, well, there should be this three-member governing body for a transition to democratic rule down the road, and that Omar Suleiman should be one of those people.  
     I'm not sure today whether for the protesters it would be acceptable to have Suleiman involved in this.  They now see him clearly as what he is, which is the closest confidant of Mubarak and one of his henchman.  
     AJAMI:  Well, Anderson, you're absolutely right.  
     I actually -- in preparing for this broadcast, I sat down and listened to both Omar Suleiman and Hosni Mubarak.  And because we know the world is carried in language, because we know that these two men are not speaking in English for us, because we know that people express themselves best in the language of their own land, in Arabic, it's even more chilling than we think in translation.  
     There's an eerie quality to both men, both old men refusing to accept the world.  There's something almost Orwellian, you once said. You used that label before.  It's almost Kafkaesque.  These are men who live in a parallel universe.  They really don't know the world around them.       And these speeches of theirs, which alternate threats and inducement, acceptance of the new world, but also a warning to people -- when Omar Suleiman says to the Egyptians, go back to your home, go back to work, it's the autocrat's trick and the autocrat's belief that the world -- that public's space doesn't belong to these people, that they best scurry to cover to their homes.  It really was an unnerving experience.
     COOPER:  It seems to me that they see themselves, Suleiman and Mubarak, as Egypt, that they don't see these protesters as Egypt. These are young people full of exuberance who have maybe bitten off more than they can chew, in their opinion.  And they're quite dismissive of them.  
     It seems like these two older men view themselves as Egypt and cannot imagine an Egypt in which they are not at the helm.  
     AJAMI:  Well, you know, it's the pharaonic culture.  
     And in the case of Mubarak, he even referred to himself as the father of these people.  This is an old notion.  And so you have -- and even Suleiman, there is something unnerving about him, because he's a man of the catacombs, of the shadows.  And you're now thrusting him into the limelight and the Egyptians are looking and they don't like what they see, and they don't like the man they see as this transitional figure who is supposed to lead them into this new democratic land.  
     COOPER:  A man of the catacombs thrust into the light, it's an extraordinary phrase.
     Jill, you have the director of the CIA today telling Congress that Mubarak was probably going to step down.  The Obama administration -- I mean, it's fascinating -- clearly thought he was going to resign, correct?  
     JILL DOUGHERTY, CNN FOREIGN AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT:  Absolutely.  
     And, you know, they did -- they say that they got signals to that effect.  That is what they expected.  And then, all of a sudden, this happened.  You know, I think, if you look at the statement that President Obama delivered, that print statement, he is really saying, we don't even know what's going on here.  You tell us.  And you tell your people and you tell the world, because it's not clear.  
     And that's why I think you're -- you know, at this point, they probably do not know exactly what is going on in the mind of Hosni Mubarak.  
     COOPER:  Yes.  
     DOUGHERTY:  As Fouad pointed out, it is a parallel universe. This is the mentality of a person who does, as you say, thinks he's Egypt, thinks he's a father, thinks he knows better.  There's a highly paternalistic tone.  
     So, we are way beyond message and staying on message.  We are into another type of internal monologue that this leader of Egypt has. 
     COOPER:  Arwa, I want to express just some concern for reporters on the ground and obviously for protesters on the ground, because last week, after Mubarak spoke, all of a sudden, there was this big pro- Mubarak party sponsored by the government, no doubt, and then these mobs began to appear in the streets, and then the attacks began, not just on the protesters, but on reporters.  
