
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired March 11, 2012 - 15:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>ALI VELSHI, CNN ANCHOR:  Good afternoon.  I'm Ali Velshi at South by Southwest here at the CNN Grill in Austin, which is where all the cool kids are, even Brooke Baldwin.  Turn around, you're on live TV on CNN.
BROOKE BALDWIN, CNN ANCHOR:  Hi, guys.
VELSHI: Good afternoon. I'm Ali Velshi at South By Southwest here at the CNN Grill in Austin, which is where all the cool kids are. Even Brooke Baldwin, you're around. You're on live TV on CNN.
South By Southwest is a great, great place to be. So many of you will think about it as a music festival, live music festival and some of you will know that evolves into a music festival as well.
What you may not have heard yet is that it's also probably the world's biggest interactive digital festival. Foursquare got its big kickoff here a few years ago. Twitter, which had already been on the market really exploded here at South By Southwest.
CNN has a presence here every year. I'm here with two guys who I really, really like. I tweeted out this morning that I've got a man crush on Mario Armstrong although I think I said it was a tech man crush.
And of course, Baritunde Thurston who I said was a little bit intimidating, one of the most fun guys around, but you really understand this world.
Here's a thing. For people who are watching this, before you change your channel because you don't know what South By Southwest is or you don't care, why do we care that we're here?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We used to think of the internet as a separate space, as a different place, and as a culture, distinct from the rest of the world.
VELSHI: Yes.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's too big for that now. The internet is not some other thing. It's in all of us. And so this festival, which began as geek culture, geek culture is now mass culture. So to understand the future that we're charting, these tools we're making affect all of us.
How we learn, how we spend money, how we find our mates, how we do our politics. So with the big picture of the whole world now, not something you can isolate as separate from the rest of us.
VELSHI: That's a good point you make. Because if we can do our politics the way people make deals about technology and come up with ideas for social media, it would be -- decision-making would be faster and probably more effective.
But, Mario, give us the candy. The fact is there are gadgets here. There are things that will be uncovered here, apps for your phone that we're going to be using for years to come.
MARIO ARMSTRONG, DIGITAL LIFESTYLE EXPERT: Absolutely for years to come. I mean, many of the things that you've already talked about. So folks that are watching at home right now, you're using many of the apps that have been here before that you were like I don't care about this stuff.
Why does it mean anything relevant to me? Well, apps are being made relevant for our life, relevant for education, for health care, for politics as it was mentioned. But also we're starting to do more around people discovery and really learning more about the people around us.
I call them kind of ice breaker apps, if you will. So we're seeing that as a trend. But we're also seeing other trends for social, for good.
I'm really excited about apps that are being developed around the non- profit space or these hybrid models of profit and non-profit kind of coming together like cause world and a couple of other really interesting apps that bring in donations and momentum and movement and missions all at the same time. All of that's here.
VELSHI: You're very big into this idea that this allows people to get access to better education, this digital world, but it's not just that.
There are people here who have nothing to do with an app, but they know this is a progressive-thinking community that knows how to change things.
So there are people here with causes who just come here to link up with other people with causes, with ideas and with money.
BARATUNDE THURSTON, DIRECTOR OF DIGITAL, THE ONION: And when you think about what this festival is, it is music, it is film and it is interactive. It's art and technology coming together and there's magic.
This idea of new ways to raise money and new ways to raise politics, at its heart, it's about a redistribution of power in our society.
The amplified voices that we as individuals have, the ability to connect each other and to form ad hoc communities and get more done for good, for change, that's amplified into the rest of the world, which we're now a part of. VELSHI: All right, good. Well, we're glad to be here and glad to have you guys kick of our show. Thank you so much, Baratunde Thurston and Mario Armstrong.
Stick around. We've got a lot going on here at the grill. Let me tell you about the CNN Grill, by the way. This is a place that took 36 hours to convert from the restaurant, the wine bar that it was, into the place that you're looking at right now.
Every table in the place has power running to it. There's a full menu here. The most popular item, I'm hoping to get one momentarily, is a chicken slider. We made 336 of them on the first day. I say we made them like I had anything to do with it.
Unless it's made in a microwave, I don't generally have anything to do with it. But all of this transition has created the CNN Grill. We even replaced the sign outside the restaurant and here we have it. We're in here.
It's a must-stop place at CNN. It's the place that all the movers and shakers come to. And I've got to tell you, at South By Southwest, it's kind of a place where people do deals. They have ideas. They hope to find people to finance or market or distribute their ideas.
And ultimately why do we care? Well, those people will get rich. But ultimately why we care is because if people have great ideas, those could become jobs down the road. This is America, it's about entrepreneurship.
But let's talk about jobs. Another month and another strong jobs report in the United States. Here's the breakdown of what we saw for February. We have -- we had the creation of 227,000 new jobs in the United States.
And 233,000 jobs were actually created in the private sector, which is where you want them to be created, 6,000 jobs were lost in government. So that's kind of -- that's the good story. That's 17 months in a row.
I know a lot of you were worried about the fact the unemployment rate is still above 8 percent. Don't worry so much about the unemployment rate, worry about actual jobs created. The unemployment rate will fluctuate for the next few months.
As we keep on creating jobs like this, more people will go into the job force and start looking for jobs. The labor participation rate will increase. As a result, the unemployment rate may go up, may go down, but we're creating jobs.
Speaking about a guy who has created many jobs in his past, Steve Case is the co-founder of AOL. He's now the chairman and CEO of a company called revolution. He's the chairman of this start-up America partnership.
He's also a member of President Obama's Jobs Council and was responsible for what remains the biggest merger in the history of the business world with AOL/Time Warner. Steve, good to see you. STEVE CASE, CHAIRMAN, STARTUP AMERICA: Good to see you.
VELSHI: You made a speech recently where you said entrepreneurship can become the next American manufacturing and that a 100 years ago would have sounded great or 50 years ago. You meant it as a warning.
CASE: Yes, I think it's a little bit of a wake-up call for our nation, particularly our leaders in Washington, D.C., because America was built by entrepreneurs as you mentioned. They started companies and entire industries and that's how it became the leading economy in the world.
But we're still great in some sectors like technology and digital media here at South by you see a lot of momentum. But a lot of other sectors, manufacturing, services, a lot of other regions in the country we don't have the same level of entrepreneurship.
In fact start-ups are down 23 percent over the last five years. If they stayed at the time same level, we'd have two million more jobs in the economy. Meanwhile, other nations around the world are stepping up their game on entrepreneurship recognizing the support.
VELSHI: We seem to think this is the American domain. This is the thing nobody can steal from us.
CASE: Yes, I'd be careful on that because I think we have a lot of things going for us. The reason we really be optimistic about American entrepreneurship like this week here at this festival.
But other nations are recognizing the secret sauce that's driven America's economy and its innovation engine has been entrepreneurship and they're putting policies in place to make it friendlier for entrepreneurs and for capital.
We need to respond. Now, the good news is people in Washington recognize it. The president is starting his Jobs Council. We laid out some proposals in the fall, bipartisan proposals to try to get entrepreneurship back on track.
VELSHI: And there are very specific things in there that you have advocated that will help entrepreneurships. For instance, a big tax credit if you invest in anything, if you create jobs. What are the other things? Making it easier for people who are educated here, but don't have visas to stay.
CASE: Some of it is the issue of winning the global battle on talent. To make sure we have immigration policies not just attract people because they to our school to get PhDs, but encourage them to stay here. Right now they come here, I know we kick them out and go back to their country and start a company there instead of starting a company here.
But there are also a whole slew of things around access to capital. Last week, the House passed with overwhelming bipartisan support, 390- 23 something called the Jobs Act, which allowed for crowd funding. So companies like this don't have to rely on venture capitalists. VELSHI: When you say crowd funding, you mean the ability for companies to raise money not just from venture capitalists?
CASE: Exactly.
VELSHI: -- or private equity firms to go out there and say I've got a great idea. Anybody want to finance it?
CASE: It creates a more democratization and access to capital for young start-up. People have great ideas to a certain limit like $10,000 if for an individual investors. I want to make the right precautions are in place.
But crowd funding can unleash a whole slew of new companies. The other thing in the Jobs Act was on-ramp for IPOs. Companies don't go public now because it's so costly so they put an on-ramp in place so eventually all companies would be subject to -- 
VELSHI: But smaller companies have a different set of rules.
CASE: Just temporarily.
VELSHI: A lot of small companies just can't bring on the staff and the re regulatory ability to ramp up.
CASE: And that's the problem when you look at our unemployment rate because 90 percent of job creation for venture backed companies happens after those companies go public.
VELSHI: Right.
CASE: So we get more companies public -- if they don't go public, oftentimes their investors get tired and they want to sell. When companies get sold, jobs decelerate and when they go public, they accelerate.
So I'm optimistic. With the president's leadership last week, the leadership of the Majority Leader Eric Cantor really built a momentum around this and this week the battle shifts if you will to the Senate.
Senator Reid will be introducing some legislation. Hopefully he just takes the Jobs Act, which I think make sense, puts it on the floor for a Senate vote. I think it will pass. If that's the case, I think the president will sign it and that would be great for entrepreneurs.
Great for access to capital and really ensure that we don't go the way of manufacturing, which 50 years ago was the core business and now we've lost some of that. Entrepreneurship still is a core business for America. We can keep it, but we need to act.
VELSHI: All right, Steve. We are talking about jobs here. Take a look at this. Christine Romans is going to break down everything you need to know about the state of the jobs situation in this country in 90 seconds -- Christine.
CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT: Ali, by now everyone has seen the headlines, 227,000 jobs created in February. Unemployment rate steady at 8.3 percent. Let's go inside jobs and take a look at some important distinctions in this month's report.
For example, look, 233,000 private sector jobs created. That's important, two years now of private sector job creation. Take a look at this, 6,000 public sector jobs lost. That has been the drag on the labor market, quite frankly.
But it's better than we saw last year, 22,000 jobs on average in the government lost every single month, so a little bit of an improvement there. I want to look quickly at the trajectory because this is something that you and I both know is so important on the campaign, right?
This is the labor market under the last months of George W. Bush. You can see the financial crisis taking hold. Hundreds of thousands of jobs lost. This is the beginning of the Obama presidency, a very terrible, terrible 2009.
This is what a financial crisis and a jobs crisis looks like. And then here is a slow, slow plodding recovery that's gathering momentum by the end of this year and the beginning of 2012. This is the part of the chart that so many people are focusing on.
Will this mean the labor market can continue to gather some steam into the summer and can put some of those people who have lost their jobs here back to work -- Ali.
VELSHI: What a great explanation. Christine, thank you.
Small business, Steve case just said this, small business is critical to add fuel for this recovery that Christine was just talking about. I was talking -- talking to about us.
South By Southwest is so important for so many of these small tech companies, which are trying to catch their break. How about if you've got a great idea? Is starting your own business an option for you?
We're going to find out what makes a start-up successful and what ideas are doomed to fail next on a special YOUR MONEY live from the CNN Grill at South By Southwest.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
VELSHI: Welcome back to a special live edition of YOUR MONEY. We're at the CNN Grill at South By Southwest in Austin, which is why I'm eating. These are the chicken sliders we made -- perhaps eating on TV is not the wisest thing.
We made 336 of these just yesterday and they're going strong. But I do have to do some business here so I'll move on. South By Southwest, for those of you who don't know what it's about, it's a launching pad for start-ups.
Foursquare is a company that launched here. Twitter is a company that was already out there, but wasn't as big. South By Southwest was the place to make it big. So we want to explore what it takes to create a successful start-up in this economy and what role start-ups could play in fixing America's job crisis.
Back with me is Steve Case. Reid Hoffman joins me now. Reid Hoffman is the co-founder of LinkedIn, early stage investor in Facebook, in Zynga. You worked for PayPal.
These guys know how to start companies. Over on the end there is my good friend Peter Diamandis, he's the chairman and founder of the X Prize Foundation. He's the co-author of "Abundance, The Future is Better Than You Think." He's a co-found of Singularity University.
These guys know about starting things up. Steve, you and I talked about entrepreneurship facing the same fate as manufacturing in the United States. That's worrisome.
Reid, do you share the view that we have to make it easier for people to create businesses? What does my viewer who might have a great idea need to know about the state of creating a start-up in this country?
REID HOFFMAN, CO-FOUNDER AND EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN, LINKEDIN: Well, I think one of the things that we have traditionally had a competitive edge in the U.S. is we're great at entrepreneurship. We're great at bringing people around the world to do it.
We're great at trying new things. So I think bringing the network around you, advisers, financiers, employees, people that understand the industry and launching.
And it's one of the things that Steve and I been doing with Startup America, which is how do you assemble a network in order to make your startup be more successful.
This is how we create the future. The world is changing in a faster and faster pace and so being able to adapt and innovate is critical.
VELSHI: Peter, let me take a sip. Peter, let's talk about you have been involved and you know people who just had little ideas. In fact, I think you said that every day -- the day before something became a great invention. It was just another stupid idea. Tell me what people need to know about creating ideas and getting them out there.
PETER DIAMANDIS, FOUNDER AND CHAIRMAN, X PRIZE FOUNDATION: I mean, having a real breakthrough requires taking risk. Before it's a breakthrough, it's a crazy idea. So the problem is in large corporations and governments we don't take big risks anymore.
Because we're concerned about large public failure that say could hit a congressional investigation or stock price. Really it's the entrepreneur, the small team that's willing to risk everything to go and make their dreams come true that drives real innovations. And the entrepreneur today has extraordinary resources at their fingertips.
VELSHI: Tell me about Startup America.
CASE: It really is a private sector effort to try to mobilize resource to help companies get started. Go to startupamericapartnerhip.org and just ask.co get resources.
Over 70 companies have contributed things to help start-ups, launched now in 20 regions. There's local efforts like Startup Texas, Startup Tennessee, really as Reid said, network together the resources.
They've created a network effect, increasing returns, network density to help these entrepreneurs and that's alongside what we talked about earlier. What the government needs to do around passing this Jobs Act to allow for crowd funding and IPO on-ramp.
There's a role for the private sector. That's what the Startup America partnership is all about. There's a role for the government. Ultimately, we do rely on entrepreneurs to be -- as Peter said, they're the attackers.
They are disrupting the status quo, creating innovation. Large companies are typically defenders. We need to make sure we unleash the attackers in this country so these companies and industries start and grow here and don't find themselves growing in other countries.
VELSHI: Do you still find those attackers, those disruptors at places like this?
HOFFMAN: Absolutely. I mean, one of the things that's great about South By Southwest is it brings a large segment of media and innovation and Austin is a very good center for design, which is one of the things that's important on the new web.
One of the things that we see through investing across the U.S. is that we still -- we can still do it. We just need to apply ourselves and no longer take it that the future is for granted, we can coast. It's how do we invest in ourselves and how do we go forward.
VELSHI: Peter, you're an internal optimist. Generally speaking, a place by South By Southwest is populated by optimists because they here thinking they have got great ideas that are going to power the future.
But you're a real optimist based on the fact that the name of your new book is "Abundance." You think there's stuff out there that is really going to make us work faster and better in the future.
