
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired November 6, 2011 - 15:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>ALI VELSHI, CNN ANCHOR:  Welcome to a special edition of YOUR MONEY. I'm Ali Velshi in Cannes, France.  Here covering the G-20, which turned out to be something entirely other than what I and the rest of the world thought it was going to be this week with the injection of a crisis in Greece and more pressure on the euro zone.
Here to discuss this and the impact on the world economically, politically and financially, John King, our chief national correspondent and the host of "JK USA", and Sheila Behr, who's the former chairman of the FDIC.
But before we talk them about this, I want to bring in my co-host and good friend, Christine Romans to explain why this has been such an important deal back in the United States.
While I've been out here in Cannes, the U.S. has been watching very closely what's going on here and what's been going on in Athens -- Christine.
CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  Because there's a growing understanding, Ali, that quite frankly the U.S. and Europe are in it together.  So anything that is negative for Greece and the E.U. is not good for America.
Europe is America's number one trading partner and there's this feeling that we don't quite understand how the domino effect could be if Greece goes down.  Greece would be that first domino in an interconnected trade, banking, and financial system.
You know, $400 billion of U.S. exports go to Europe every single year. That makes it a huge destination for our goods.  If there were a severe recession in Europe because of a financial crisis, it would definitely hurt the U.S.
There's also over a trillion dollars of direct investment in the E.U. from the U.S. and another $2.7 trillion in loans and other commitments.  Everything from banks, companies, municipal governments, retirement funds that are all wrapped up and tied up in business with Europe.
So it's two very close allies, two regions that depend on each other financially.  It just shows that we're in it together.  What's good for Europe is good for the U.S.  Not good for anyone if this thing doesn't get solved quickly -- Ali. VELSHI:  Which is why all eyes have been here all weekend in Athens. Christine, I'll check with you a little later in the show.  John, let me bring you into this thing.
You have covered things like this, international summits and typically, when you're here with the president of the United States, most eyes are on the president of the United States.
Interesting things are happening at this G-20.  First of all, the president of the United States is here, the treasury secretary, the premier of China, Hu Jintao is here.
But all eyes are not on these people.  Is this a sign of shifting global sands that the U.S. is not the primary player in a week like this?
JOHN KING, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, I think that is certainly a sense.  You see it there when you're in the summit and hear it back in the states when you watch whether it's people in Washington.  I'm in Des Moines, Iowa today covering the presidential election.
When you talk politically about the future, there is a question, is the United States still the preeminent economic leader in the world? Can President Obama go there and make a case about European debt when Washington is so dysfunctional right now about U.S. debt?
When you travel the country, Ali, this is not a business school term I don't think, but you sense there's still what I call a constipation in the economy.  Corporations won't spend the millions and millions and millions they have because they have anxieties and uncertainty about Europe.
Also uncertainty about the U.S. tax structure and debt structure. Last night, I met a woman here who just got laid off from her job in a hotel because she said the owner can't get financing to do a big renovation.
So there is this sense of uncertainty.  You see the president on the world stage.  You feel it on the local level here and it's impacting the world.  Guess what, it's going to impact the next presidential election in a big way.
VELSHI:  Sheila Bair, let me ask you this.  You spent years trying to keep the banking system in the United States safe.  Ultimately, at the heart of this issue in Europe is the banking system.  It's the issue that banks are at risk.  Explain to us what's going on and what they are doing right or wrong to keep the banking system afloat and why that's so important.
SHEILA BAIR, FORMER CHAIRWOMAN, FDIC:  Well, European banks are very thinly capitalized.  There are differences among institutions, but as a group, they are much more thinly capitalized than U.S. banks.
One of the reasons is because the rules that European regulators follow are much more permissive in terms of letting bank management decide their minimum capital levels.
So I think what we need to do now is have a more rigorous stress test thing by the European banking thought with realistic loss rates, true distressed economic scenarios and also capital level that are based on hard and fast minimums.
It's what we call leverage ratios in the U.S. other than the much softer risk weighted ratios that the EBA has been using in European banking, and other European regulators have used.
I think, you know, confidence in the European banking system is important.  They need to be building fortress balance sheets right now.  This is not the time to be fudging numbers or be less than completely forthright about the levels of capital and what additional capital needs to go in to stabilize that system.
VELSHI:  What's your sense of their understanding of that?  We've heard from the French President Nicolas Sarkozy, from Angela Merkel. These are countries obviously whose banks are most concerned.
They're the stronger countries.  Is there a sense that all the players at the table understand what you just said and are generally prepared to move in the right direction?
BAIR:  No, I don't think so.  There's been a lot of focus obviously on these problems of the sovereigns.  Ultimately, the impact it's going to have, the banking system is what's going to cause a potentially severe credit contraction.  That could cause a broader problem for the European and global economies.
So I don't think enough focus has been put on this.  They need to get those levels up with real capital.  It may require dilution of shareholders.  It may require temporary nationalization.  I think much more aggressive action needs to be taken on this issue.
VELSHI:  That shared pain or that aggressive action is exactly what is causing countries like Greece to be concerned.  It's disallowing people from doing what might be necessary because they are fearful of the impact on this.
John, I have to tell you.  You're on that campaign trail.  This is not the kind of discussion, this fear of contagion of this debt, the idea what Christine described a slowdown in Europe affecting the United States.  This is not really making it into the campaign trail at this point?
KING:  They are not talking as much in the fine detail as you were just talking about with Sheila.  But they are talking about the idea that in the view of the Republicans who are campaigning.
I sat down with Texas Governor Rick Perry while he was here in Iowa. He says president of the United States can't go to these meetings with big leverage right now because he doesn't have anything positive to say.
VELSHI:  Right. KING:  Because the United States has not dealt with very similar problems.  So that's an issue you will hear.  You will hear criticism of the president's leadership.  More importantly though, Ali, 9 percent unemployment still.
The U.S. economy creating jobs, 80,000 last month, well, that's nowhere near enough.  You know that to start bringing the rate down. Not only that to start putting confidence into people.
So are people here discussing the European debt crisis in the fine detail that the leaders in Europe are, the conversation you just had with Sheila?  No.
But are they aware that there's huge drag on the economy and it's not just the factory up the street or the factory in the state next door? They are about that.
When you travel the country and you talk to people about their economic anxiety, they do talk about global pressures.  They talk more about China than about Europe, but they are aware this is a big global problem.
VELSHI:  That's a very good point.  China tends to be the focus, but Europe is, in fact, as a group the largest trading partner.  What the implications of this may be is the realization that while everybody is mad at Washington for what they did or didn't do right legitimately.
The fact is the rest of the world may have a bigger impact on jobs back at home than Congress can even.  Let's continue this conversation in just a minute.  John King, Sheila Bair, stay right where you are.
We'll be right back after this break.  You're watching a special edition of "YOUR MONEY" from Cannes, France.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
VELSHI:  Welcome back to YOUR MONEY.  I'm Ali Valhi.  I'm in Cannes, France covering the G-20.  We've got a blue ribbon panel assembled here to discuss global politics and economics and the affects that it has on you.
I've got John King.  He's our chief national correspondent at CNN and the host of "JK USA" and Sheila Bair.  She's the former chair of the FDIC, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a body that was very important to Americans throughout the worst of the financial crisis.
John, Sheila Bair really has been a broad role she and the FDIC played during the financial crisis.  I want to ask you, Sheila, people who are watching the show.  The show is called YOUR MONEY.
If you're not interested in your money, you're probably not watching the show unless the batteries are gone on your remote.  But we don't all know the details about banking.
I think most people polled on the street would be surprised that banks keep less money in core capital or safe capital than we think they do. So when you look at this crisis in Europe, with the hindsight of what we went through in the United States.
Is this problem in Europe imminently solvable or should we in the United States or the rest of the world be very fearful that this is not solvable and could send us into another financial crisis?
BAIR:  I think it's solvable if people face up to reality.  One of the harder pieces of reality is that the low capital levels in European banks.  They really need to get the capital levels up.
If you get into a period of economic distress and banks have too low capital levels that will threaten their solvency.  That will threaten whether they remain viable, whether they can keep lending.
So building what we call fortress balance sheets, getting capital up, it matters.  It's a job of regulators.  It's a good example of why regulation matters to our broader economic health.
VELSHI:  All right, Christine Romans is going to take it from here. I'll go back to covering the G-20 -- Christine.
ROMANS:  All right, thanks, Ali.  I want to bring in Ian Bremmer right now, president of Euro Asia Group.  Ian, nice to see you.  The focus right now is on the crisis in Greece.
In time, we could face similar scenarios with other European countries like Italy, Spain, Portugal, when will this constant threat of financial crisis, recession in Europe and what it could mean for America.  When will that subside?
IAN BREMMER, PRESIDENT, EUROASIA GROUP:  Well, it can't subside for quite a while and in part that's part of the plan.  If you're Germany right now or if you're France, the core European states or you're the European institutions, you know that the only way you end up fixing European institutions is by continuing to use market pressure to ensure that austerity continues.
So you can't write a check.  We're talking to Angela Merkel last year at Davos.  She was basically saying that, you know, the only day that she really has leverage is right before she actually cuts the check.
Everyone understands that.  So it's not going to be a German marshal plan.  This isn't the post-war environment.  You have to change European institutions.  This is not just a matter of weeks or months. We're going to be talking about this European crisis frankly for more than another year.
ROMANS:  You know, John King, what does that mean for the president and his hopes for re-election?  Because every minute we're talking about Greece is a minute we're not talking about the fact that jobs market in this country is still pretty blah.  Does it have any bearing on a president who is going to be soon if not already in campaign mode?
KING:  It has dramatic bearing.  He is in campaign mode.  He is trying to do two jobs at once, be president and be a candidate for re- election. Just look what has happened in recent days.  Greece announces it has a plan, the markets in the United States rally.  Then the prime minister says wait, I'm going to have a referendum, the markets in the United States go down.
Europe appears to get a deal, up, down, up, down.  What you just went through Ian, you know, Italy, Spain, Portugal, and so on.  So if we're going to have this roller coaster heading into a presidential election year, you'll have volatility in the markets.
You'll have uncertainty in the economy.  We know Ben Bernanke just said this week persistently high perhaps 8.5 percent to 8.7 percent unemployment by the time the president seeks re-election.
This is the number one issue in the country.  It is for him as a leader and it is for the voters.  The voters after being promised things would get better after being promised the stimulus plan would help, you can't blame it all on the president.
But guess what, when you're president of the United States running for re-election in a tough economy, you take a hit and this is a very, very steep hill for him right now.
ROMANS:  You know, there are any steps that the administration or the president should be taking right now to best position our economy for possible fallout from Europe?
I mean, on the one hand, the U.S. can't also go there and say you should do this, because we're still blamed for the financial crisis in 2008.  We don't have the moral authority we once had on these issues.
BREMMER:  Well, the U.S. also doesn't have moral authority on social dissolution.  I mean, you know, I thought that Sarkozy's speech at the Cannes G-20 meeting talking about the fact that any plan that comes from the IMF is going to take into account the fact that people are hurting on the ground is absolutely a reflection of "Occupy Wall Street" in the United States.
So the U.S. does have this issue.  There's not much Obama can do frankly.  I mean, he's very much frustrated because he lost -- his party lost the midterm elections.  He doesn't have the ability to actually get anything through, through 2013.
That's Romney's best opportunity to beat him.  So Obama can talk about the fact that unemployment numbers are starting to go down very, very slowly.  He could talk about the fact that American growth looks a lot more resilient right now than European growth.
Those are all true facts, but this election is going to be about the economy.  The economy is going to be fundamentally weak.  So really 2012 is about the power of the American incumbency, which is very strong against an economy that looks weaker than at any point since the great depression.  Even President Obama is going to be very vulnerable in that --
ROMANS:  Sheila, you were such an expert on banks and banking and the risk for U.S. banks -- what is the risk there?  Because it's such a global interconnected financial system and I'm still trying to get my head around.
I don't know if any of us ever really will know what the exposure is for credit default swaps, some of the complicated derivatives that banks and investors put on just in the very case something happening in some of these countries.  What is the risk?
BAIR:  Well, there is a lot of relationships.  There's not much direct exposure to the peripheral sovereign debt either through direct ownership or CBS coverage.
But certainly there's a lot of exposure to the European system generally in European banks generally, which is why I hate to sound like a Johnny one note, but I really think there needs to be a laser like focus on building the balance sheets and the resilience of the European banking system to absorb what's going to be a prolong tumultuous time period as Ian indicated.
As you indicated earlier, Europe is a huge export market so there's certainly it's going to be an economic drag if their economy falters and exports to Europe reduce.  But it also could have a knock on impact on our banking system, which could lead to further credit contractions here, which would not be good.
ROMANS:  Yes, it won't good.  The uncertainty is just not something that anybody needs right now.  Exactly.  Sheila Bair, Ian Bremmer, John King, thanks to all of you for some fascinating analysis of the situation.
All right, does the latest jobs report offer evidence that we may have averted a double dip recession here at home.  We'll take a look next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
ROMANS:  It's 80,000 jobs added in October.  It's better than nothing, but it's not enough because you need at least 150,000 just to keep up with population growth.  But this is what it looks like over the past year, 80,000 jobs created in October.
The unemployment rate actually slipped a little bit to 9 percent.  The private sector created about 104,000, but there are some revisions, folks.  If you looked at August and September, you can see that those months were better than we thought.
So there was more job creation in the end of the summer, early fall that we had thought.  I guess you could take that as good news. You've got a full year now of job creation.
But Diane Swonk, chief economist with Mesirow Financial, Diane, it's been this sideways, slow and disappointing for a recovery that does not feel like a recovery.
Is it that so many CEOs in companies are just so afraid that things are going to turn south again?  They don't want to fire.  They don't want to have hire people just to turn around next year and fire them. DIANE SWONK, CHIEF ECONOMIST, MESIROW FINANCIAL:  That's actually right.  I think most people forget that these people are people too. They don't like firing people after they hired them up and the issue is uncertainty.
Look at all the icebergs still we have floating around out there. Europe is on the front page every day and it's going to be for some time to come as the earlier segment pointed out.  We've got our own impotence in Washington.
And what's going to happen to "Super Committee"?  Are they going to get the $1.2 trillion?  Are we ever going to deal with our fiscal situation in the U.S.?  There are so many uncertainties out there. That it's really hard to get vision.
We don't have vision even though we got cash on the balance sheet. It's hard to make that commitment to hire because you just don't know what the economy is looking like going forward.  We're also looking at -- it looks like they might not extend the payroll tax cut that's (inaudible) tax increase for everyone at the start of the year.
So even if we make it through the fourth quarter looking OK, worry about the beginning of 2012.  That's just not a good environment to be hiring up in.
ROMANS:  All right.  Economist, Peter Morici, is a professor at the University of Maryland, School of Business, a friend of the show just like Diane is.
You know, Peter, long-term unemployment, this is a trend.  These people have been out of work six months or longer, a real problem, a real problem when you start to talk about structural unemployment.  Is that reversible at this point?  Do you see any signs we can reverse that?
PETER MORICI, PROFESSOR, UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND SCHOOL OF BUSINESS: Well, not until we get demand growing a lot quicker.  You know, with the debt overhang, the heavy level of imports we have and so forth, demand is growing, you know, not adequately.
It isn't that people aren't buying, but demand for domestic products is not strong enough.  In that environment, the people that are unemployed for more than six months are the last ones to be hired back.  At least, they're further down the ladder because people who have recently worked are just more attractive.
ROMANS:  That's why you're seeing the job -- there's a big controversy about job ads, you guys where there are all these job ads that say you must be currently employed to be considered for this job.  That means it's impossible.
SWONK:  That adds insult to injury.
MORICI:  Absolutely.
ROMANS:  I think employers will lose good people that way, too because there are some people who are just victims of all this, who are perfectly good employees.  This is the whole problem of this labor market.
Tig Gilliam, is the CEO of Adecco.  They place people in jobs throughout the world.  So he first hand knows what it's like to hire, who is hiring and what it takes to get hired right now.
You point out, Tig, that temporary workers are not being let go in large numbers right now.  A sign that corporations, they've gone to the temporary worker and they need those workers?
TIG GILLIAM, CEO, ADECCO:  Yes, absolutely.  Where companies absolutely need capacity, they are going first to a flexible solution. That means they are coming to temporary and contract workers as a first step.  We saw that in a jobs report here with 15,000 more temporary jobs.
That's more than what we even expect with a seasonal increase that comes in the fourth quarter.  So that's a good sign.  More and more people are getting their permanent job opportunities having completed a successful temporary contract assignment with clients.
