
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired November 2, 2011 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Erin, thanks very much.  Good evening, everyone.
We begin tonight with breaking news in the Herman Cain story.  It is hard to know exactly where to begin tonight.  So much has happened in just the last few hours.
We have just learned the attorney for one of two women alleging sexual harassment by Cain when he ran the National Restaurant Association is talking to his client right now about what she should do.  They're talking strategy, deciding whether or not she is going to come forward.
Also, the Associated Press reports a third woman has emerged telling her story alleging sexual harassment by Mr. Cain when she worked for him at the National Restaurant Association.
If that weren't enough, we're also learning details of the one of the first two incidents, one of the two that ended in financial settlements and confidentiality agreements.  They come from Chris Wilson, a Restaurant Association colleague who witnessed he says one of the incidents and spoke about it today to Gloria Borger and CNN affiliate KTOK.
CHRIS WILSON, FORMER POLLSTER, NATIONAL RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION:  I'll tell you at the time she was a very lower level staffer.  I think she was maybe two years out of college and this all occurred at a restaurant in Crystal City, and everybody was very aware of it.  And so it is -- it was only a matter of time because so many people were aware of what took place.  So many people were aware of her situation and the fact that she left after this.
That it was a -- it was a -- everybody knew what the campaign -- that this would eventually come up.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  Chris Wilson, we should point out, is a Rick Perry supporter. Gloria Borger asked him about that, she joins us shortly.  We'll talk to her for details. Again, that's not all, though.  On top of all of that, according to forbes.com, Cain is now blaming another campaign operative.  A 2004 campaign adviser who's now working for Rick Perry for sparking this whole mess but "Keeping Him Honest," Cain's accusation directly contradicts his own statements about not recalling any sexual harassment allegations or settlements.
We're going to lay all of that out.  But the day began with a conservative frontrunner not wanting to talk about any of this anymore.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HERMAN CAIN (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Let me say one thing.  I'm here with these doctors and that's what I'm going to talk about so don't even bother asking me all of these other questions that you all are curious about.  OK?  Don't even bother.
(CROSSTALK)
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  Good question, though.
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  Are you concerned about the fact that these women do want to --
CAIN:  What did I say?
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  -- who wants to come forward.  Are you concerned about --
CAIN:  Excuse me.  Excuse me.
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  Rick Ross who was --
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Step aside, please.
CAIN:  What part of no don't -- these people understand?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  Well, there was some pushing, shoving, no answers from the candidate.  The questions that began on Sunday when the "Politico" story hit detailing at least two incidents of alleged sexual harassment in the late '90s when Herman Cain ran the National Restaurant Association.
Today possible corroboration on the at least angle.  A third NRA employee spoke to the Associated Press.  According to the AP, quote, "She said the behavior included a private invitation to his corporate apartment."  The report goes on to say that the unnamed woman says Cain made sexually suggested remarks or gestures.
Here's the Cain campaign's response.  Quote, "Mr. Cain has said over the past two days at public events that we could see other baseless allegations made against him as this appalling smear campaign continues."  The statement goes on, quote, "He has never acted in the way alleged by inside-the," excuse me.
"He's never acted in the way alleged by inside-the-beltway media and his distinguished record over 40 years spent climbing the corporate ladder speaks for itself."
And we should point out this third accuser did not file a formal complaint.  Now according to the AP she says this happened at about the same time those two other women did file complaints.  They're the two featured in the "Politico" story on Sunday, the story you all remember that Cain had a 10-day warning on but no answer to at first.
Then the next day his memory suddenly seemed to come back.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CAIN:  If the Restaurant Association did a settlement, I am not -- I wasn't even aware of it and I hope it wasn't for much because nothing happened.
I am unaware of any sort of settlement.  I was aware that an agreement was reached.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  He attributed the earlier lack of recall to how long ago this happened and confusion over being asked about settlements when he understood them to be -- in his word -- agreements.  Yet today talking to a writer at "Forbes" magazine he himself -- he himself blew a big chunk of his own hazy memory excuse to bits.
He says that during his 2004 Georgia Senate campaign he told a consultant Kurt Anderson that a sexual harassment claim had been brought against him while he ran the NRA.  Quote, "It was a typical campaign conversation," he says.  Quote, "I told him that there was only one case, one set of charges, one woman while I was at the National Restaurant Association."
That conversation happened in 2003.  Yet Monday morning and afternoon he had no memory of the incident at all.  Then he did but was confused.
So did he forget it between 2003 and Monday, something that back then he remembered, and told his political adviser because he saw it as a potential liability?
That adviser Kurt Anderson is now a Perry adviser, something the Cain people are now pointing to as evidence of a smear.
It's confusing, I know.
Joining us now chief political analyst Gloria Borger and senior legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin.
So, Gloria, you just got off the phone with Joel Bennett, the attorney for one of Cain's accusers who we spoke to last night.  What did he tell you?  What's the latest? GLORIA BORGER, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL ANALYST:  Well, this evening he's not speaking with us, he is speaking with his client.  He's meeting with her and she's the one who 12 years ago alleged sexual harassment against Herman Cain and he told me that it is likely he will ask the Restaurant Association to allow his client to issue a statement under his name -- without her name -- to issue a statement saying that she vehemently denies Cain's remarks and that she was sexually harassed.
And he believes he needs permission from the Restaurant Association because he doesn't -- he wants to get an agreement from them that this would not be construed as a violation of her confidentiality agreement.
COOPER:  But he's already said that.  I mean, he said that on this program last night.  Are you saying he would go farther in the statement, though?
BORGER:  Well, I think she feels that she needs to issue an explicit statement.  I asked him how much detail would be in it.  He did not know but this is what he did say to me.
He said, "She doesn't want to become another Anita Hill.  That's not her interest or her expectation.  She would like to put this behind her.  She put it behind her 12 years ago.  She is not a publicity seeker.  She's happily married and has a good job."
So it's clear she wants to set the record straight but it seems like she doesn't want to go in front of the cameras.
COOPER:  You also talked to Chris Wilson, the former pollster for the National Restaurant Association --
BORGER:  Yes.
COOPER:  -- who says he witnessed Cain sexually harassing an employee. Did he tell you Cain was inappropriate with this woman?
BORGER:  Well, all he would do is confirm essentially what you played at the top of the show which was his interview, but in that interview it was very clear that he believed what she did -- what he did was inappropriate and he also said that, you know, everybody knew with the campaign that this would eventually come out.
And, one other point, Anderson.  I raised the question with him, obviously, of whether he was politically motivated and he would say this on the record to me because he does run a political action committee independent from the campaign of Rick Perry but he supports Rick Perry.
So it's an obvious question to ask and he said, quote, "I had nothing to do with leaking this in any way and I have never discussed or shared this story with any of my clients, period."
COOPER:  It was interesting, though, Chris Wilson, what he said.  And I want to get the exact wording, I'm just going to look in my computer.  He said, "This occurred at a restaurant in Crystal City and everyone was very aware of it."
BORGER:  Right.
COOPER:  I'm not sure if that means that people witnessed it and thought it was inappropriate at the time.  That means they were aware of it or if it just word was out in the National Restaurant Association that this had occurred.
BORGER:  Right.  And we really don't know but if everyone was aware of it, you can only surmise that people were talking about it, maybe the next day at the office.
COOPER:  Right.
BORGER:  Or --
COOPER:  So --
BORGER:  Then it became a topic of conversation and believe me we're following up on this radio interview.
COOPER:  So -- all right, so, Jeff, now a third woman has accused Cain of sexual harassment in an interview with the Associated Press.  You said there's a big difference, though, between this accusation and the other two that there was a settlement for.
JEFFREY TOOBIN, CNN SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST:  Right.  I mean just because a woman says something to the Associated Press, I mean, that is not of great importance.  I mean what makes the two that "Politico" originally reported on so important and so significant is that the National Associate -- Restaurant Association paid these women money.
That suggests something went on, enough either to -- you know, settle a case or it was perhaps just nuisance money to get rid of it.
COOPER:  Right, let --
TOOBIN:   But I mean, but paying money is very different from simply a blank -- a blank accusation.
COOPER:  But people settle, you know, and pay money just to make things go away in lawsuits all the time.
TOOBIN:  They do.
COOPER:  I mean, it's more expensive to go through the litigation --
TOOBIN:  Absolutely.
COOPER:  -- than just to pay a couple of tens of thousands of dollars.
TOOBIN:  That's true.  And that may be what happened here, that it's certainly a possibility, but the fact that money changed hands following a sexual harassment allegation is of an order of magnitude, a lot more significant and worthy of investigation, than somebody saying to the Associated Press, this guy did something wrong. COOPER:  Gloria, it seems unless one of these women actually comes forward and puts a face on this, I mean, where does this go?  Because if you just have some press release from this woman's attorney --
BORGER:  Right.
COOPER:  I mean, Cain supporters will say --
BORGER:  You know --
COOPER:  -- well, look, this is terribly unfair.  How do you -- how do you, you know, argue against a phantom, somebody who's not showing themselves?
BORGER:  You know, I would argue that at some point -- you've covered a lot of these stories as have I and Jeff.  At some point I think you kind of have to assume that the story will come out.  The full story will come out.  And maybe Herman Cain will tell the story and maybe the Restaurant Association will release a report, and it's documentation.
Maybe Herman Cain will ask for that to be released and maybe in the end the women will say, OK, release our names.  I mean -- you know, it's very hard to predict --
COOPER:  Right.  Where it's going to go.
BORGER:  -- what's going -- what's going to happen.  I mean this is very incremental but I think the fact that she wants to issue any kind of a statement means that she's clearly upset with what she has heard Mr. Cain saying.
COOPER:  To get her -- yes.
TOOBIN:  It's certainly understandable that she doesn't want her name dragged through the mud.  But a piece of paper issued by her lawyer, as you point out, that's really unfair to Herman Cain.
I mean how is he supposed to respond to that?
COOPER:  Right.
TOOBIN:  That is not a fair airing of the issue.  That's simply attacking him blindly and you know, we shouldn't -- I mean, that's not something that should resolve this issue at all.
COOPER:  Right.
Jeff Toobin, I got to leave it there.
Gloria Borger, as well.
I want to dig deeper now with Tea Party organizer and bigjournalism.com editor Dana Loesch.  Also "The Washington Post's" "Right Turn" blogger and columnist Jennifer Reuben, and Democratic strategist James Carville. So, Dana, for the Cain campaign, their most recent response to this is basically to call the -- is for a call for the Perry campaign and "Politico" to apologize.  They're clearly trying to shift the blame. Do you think that's going to work?
DANA LOESCH, CNN CONTRIBUTOR:  I don't think it's going to work.  And in fact, I think what this is going to do is -- it's going to backfire with the Cain campaign immediately.  This is -- this is something that they tried to avoid.  Now that they have all of this.  Like you were saying earlier.
It's very interesting that Herman Cain said Monday that he had no knowledge or as soon as these accusations came out Monday that he had no knowledge at all of any kind of settlement, and then yet today the story came out that, well, he actually did talk to Kurt Anderson and they discussed it in detail.  Their words, not mine.
So he opens the door to all of these questions and I think it's just going to -- I think it's just going to be ended up being bad for him. And I am very interested in seeing his polling numbers from Quinnipiac and everything else today to how this translates later on, how this is going to affect him.  I just think it's -- this was a bad move.  This was sloppy.  And the Cain campaign has been handling this in a very sloppy fashion.
COOPER:  Yes, Jennifer Reuben, I mean, obviously, I mean to Dana's point, the Cain campaign has been making more than a few missteps over the last couple of days.  I guess the question is, are they doing anything right here?
JENNIFER REUBEN, WASHINGTON POST'S "RIGHT TURN" BLOGGER:  Not that I can see.  First of all, they have attacked another individual in the race which is probably not going to endear him to conservatives.  And it sort of steps on his excuse.  Remember, up until today his excuse was that this was some kind of liberal conspiracy to get rid of a black conservative.
Well, how does Rick Perry fit into that scheme?  And just about everything he does pours oil on the flames here.
What you didn't mention was that Mark Block was actually one of the individuals who tipped "Politico" off to yet another incident and this concerns an Iowa talk show host who says that Cain came in to his studio and made some inappropriate comments to his employees, so it just seems that the Cain campaign -- I don't imagine they're doing this intentionally but they just seem to be building and building and building, and making this worse every single day.
COOPER:  James Carville, you put out a share of fires in your time. What do you make -- I mean how do you assess all this?
JAMES CARVILLE, CNN POLITICAL CONTRIBUTOR:  I'm glad I'm not in the middle of this.  I assess -- obviously Cain was not telling the truth when he said that.  Obviously this came from Perry.  Who benefits by it?  Perry does.  I mean any detective in the world would say -- I shouldn't say obviously.  He is the most likely suspect by far.  No Democrat would leak this.  And --
