
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired October 10, 2011 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     JOHN KING, CNN ANCHOR:  Thanks, Erin.  
     We begin "Keeping Them Honest" in Egypt where dozens are dead, hundreds injured after a weekend of bloodshed.  It's the worst violence in Egypt since the uprising eight months ago that toppled President Hosni Mubarak.  All the talk of a peaceful transition just talk at this point.  
     Look at this.  This is the reality in the new Egypt, too similar to the old.  Military tanks right there running over people Sunday night.  The clashes between the army and pro-Coptic Christian protesters turned deadly.  At least 25 people killed, nearly 300 others wounded.  
     Coptic Christians are an ancient sect that make up about 9 percent of Egypt's population.  They have faced a lot of violence in the recent months but it's unclear just how the violence started Sunday night or who is to blame.  
     But here's what we do know.  The violence erupted when a group of Coptic Christians and supporters of their cause were marching toward the Egyptian state-run television building.  Military trucks were set on fire.  Some of the protesters could be seen throwing rocks.  The army said some in the crowd had guns and fired on them.  Yet witnesses say it was the army that fired on the protesters.  
     The stories may be different but no one, no one can deny this. Look right there.  Dead bodies in the morgue.  The victims of this weekend's clashes.  Too many victims to refrigerate, so they are kept on ice.  
     This is the reality in the new Egypt, again, too similar to the old.  
     Once again the government has imposed a curfew from 2:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m.  And the people of Egypt still under emergency law, one of the main frustrations they protested back about eight months ago.  And the military is not turning the government over to civilians as it promised to do.  
     Gone are celebrations back in February.  You'll likely remember this was the mood.  Look at that back then.  People taking to the streets, climbing up on tanks joyous the Mubarak regime was history. After weeks of protest in Cairo's Liberation Square, the people of Egypt were facing a new day, new hopes, new dreams.  Gone, they thought, were the armored personnel vehicles running over people.  
     You remember this?  
     Egyptians hope they never see anything like that again.  But this past weekend they did.  And just like during the uprising earlier this year, video is surfacing on YouTube.  Now we can't independently verify these videos but we think it's important the world sees what's reportedly going on.  
     We found this video on YouTube.  It was recorded last week. Allegedly shows several members of the Egyptian army repeatedly hitting an Egyptian Christian.  The man tries to protect his face from the clubbing.  
     We found another shocking video on YouTube.  We must warn you, though, it's not easy to watch.  We've blurred the worst of it.  This is Egyptian singer Ramie Assam.  He says he was beaten by the Army in March.  He says the scars on his back prove it.  He claims they hit him and others with wooden sticks, metal pipes, hoses, leather batons and belts.  
     Also on YouTube, from October 2nd, video of a reporter to show Egyptian police and military forces torturing detainees using tasers on them.  Men who aren't showing any aggression, yet they are tasered, slapped.  
     Again, this is the reality in the new Egypt.  Too similar to the old.  
     Here at home, the White House says now is time for restraint on all sides so Egyptians can move forward together and forge a strong and united Egypt.  Just last week Defense Secretary Leon Panetta visited Egypt and said he had full confidence in the country and its people.  He also had this message.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     LEON PANETTA, DEFENSE SECRETARY:  It's extremely important for the stability of this region that Egypt be able to develop a strong democracy for the future and meet the aspirations of the Egyptian people.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     KING:  What does this latest violence mean for the future of Egypt?  
     Joining me now from Cairo are senior international correspondent Ben Wedeman.  Also with us tonight, former U.S. State Department official Anne-Marie Slaughter, currently a professor at Princeton University, and Fouad Ajami, senior fellow at Stanford University's Hoover Institution.  
     Ben, the most violent -- most violence in Egypt since the revolution.  Take us back to last night's protests, exactly what happened.       BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, what we understand, John, from eyewitnesses was that this demonstration was approaching the TV building in (INAUDIBLE) which has become a hub of a lot of the protests.  They say as they approached the building, men in civilian clothing began to throw rocks at them and then attacked them with machetes and clubs, and then chaos ensued.  
     And, as we saw in those YouTube videos, some military vehicles just drove right into the crowd.  And we did see bodies in the morgues that would indicate that they were in fact crushed by those vehicles.  
     Now the army has a completely different version of events.  They say that some of the protesters attacked military vehicles, stole from them firearms, opened fire on the military, and killed at least three soldiers.  But all of the protesters we spoke to today completely denied that version of events.  
     In fact, at this point -- last night the Egyptian state media was saying that three soldiers were killed.  Now they're stepping back and the military is not saying how many were killed.  So it's not at all clear the final result, but what is clear is what has happened is the tensions have really skyrocketed in Cairo.  
     The sectarian conflicts are on the minds of many people in the Egyptian capital this evening -- John.  
     KING:  Ben, I want to note for our viewers you're joining us through a Skype connection so there's a little bit of a rumble in the audio there but it's important we talk to you.  
     Sectarian violence, nothing new in Egypt.  Why an uptick since the revolution?  
     WEDEMAN:  Well, many people say -- and certainly the situation on the street seems to confirm it -- that the military council that is essentially the government in Egypt simply is incapable of controlling the situation.  You have to keep in mind that this is an institution that has no experience whatsoever in running the country.  
     And it seems that the only thing they're good at, as you saw from those videos, is the same kind of repression, the same kind of mindless brutality that, of course, brought the Mubarak regime down -- John.  
     KING:  And Anne-Marie, we remember the scenes, the protesters in Tahrir Square celebrating alongside the soldiers when Mubarak was toppled.  Pretty shocking to see just eight months later military vehicles running over demonstrators.  How much has really changed?  
     ANNE-MARIE SLAUGHTER, FMR. DIR. OF POLICY PLANNING, U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT:  As I was watching that I was remembering the demonstrations back in February saying the army and the people are one hand.  That was one of the chants of the protesters.  
     Well, based on the videos last night, the army and the people were not one hand.  The real question it seem to me is whether this is the proof that the revolution really hasn't happened.  In other words, that it hasn't changed the power structure, or whether what we're watching is a slow-motion revolution, where initially they tried to do nothing, then they sacrificed Mubarak, created this council, but that's still not going to be enough.  And we're about to watch the next phase unfold.  
     KING:  It's a fascinating question, Fouad.  And as we watch the next phase, the prime minister is blaming foreign meddling for these troubles, claiming part of some, quote, "dirty conspiracy."  That sounds eerily familiar to the language the regime used, the Mubarak regime, when it was trying to cling to power.  
     FOUAD AJAMI, SENIOR FELLOW, STANFORD UNIVERSITY'S HOOVER INSTITUTE:  Well, yes, John, you're absolutely right.  There is a kind of complete evasion of responsibility.  Foreign agents, dirty hand remnants, we know that most of the remnants of the Mubarak regime are doing.  This is a failure of the Egyptian social compact between Muslims and Copts, and actually, the way you said it was just right.  
     In the new Egypt as in the old, since 1972, since 1972 there have been 167 major incidents with the Muslims and Copts, this is an old story for the Egyptians and they better be on watch.  And they can't offer up the old excuses and the old pretext.  
     KING:  Ben, respect between the people and the military is critical if this transition is going to work.  Do the Egyptian people still respect their military?  
     WEDEMAN: Well, some segment of the population does.  There are Egyptians who feel that the military is sort of that last barrier against chaos, and they do support the military.  But increasingly we're hearing both from Christians and Muslims that the military has failed.  It's failed to live up to its promises to democratize the country, to lift the emergency law that's been in place in decades.  
     It still is sending civilians to military trials.  There's a feeling that the time has come for these generals to go back to their barracks.  They haven't succeeded.  It is time for them to go home.  
     KING:  Fouad, we knew this would not be easy.  When you see these struggles play out, it's the hard truth.  It's a hard truth.  But how big of a concern should it be, I think, especially, especially given the military's involvement in violence?  
     AJAMI:  Well, I think -- remember, I mean -- you know Ben Wedeman had it right.  There was a big demonstration recently where people said basically the slogan of the demonstration to the army, thank you, now go back to your barracks.  
     The problem, John, is you've got 24 men.  That's the supreme council of the armed forces.  They're like the Wizard of Oz.  They're behind a curtain.  They're ruling Egypt without any responsibility. So they have the power and no responsibility.  And then you have this prime minister, a decent man, Essam Sharaf, who's got the responsibility but he's got no power.       The Egyptian armed forces have to speed along the transition of this -- to a democracy.  And they must watch for this schism between the Muslims and the Copts.  They can't tell lies about their country.  
     KING:  Anne-Marie, you remember, and you know historically how Egypt is a beacon in the Middle East.  You remember what a signal it was when Mubarak fell across the region.  But what happens now if things stall and get more difficult and violent?  
     SLAUGHTER:  Well, even with this violence it's going to -- it has spillover effects, for instance, in Syria where the Christians have been supporting Bashar Assad.  They're bound to be looking at what's happening now and thinking that's not a scenario they want.  But more broadly, if this revolution were not to be completed, if in fact the military does not relinquish power, then the entire Middle East looks different.  
     Because then Tunisia has had a successful revolution peacefully and Libya has had a successful revolution by armed violence, but everybody else looks at this and thinks, OK, really peaceful demonstrations haven't worked.  It's either violence or simply continued oppression by government.  So unless Egypt can continue its revolution, it will have -- it really does change the picture in the region.  
     KING:  For Fouad, you heard from the Defense Secretary Leon Panetta there talk about how important it is that Egypt get to democracy.  It was perhaps late but important when the Obama administration said Mubarak must go.  A number of administrations going back told Mubarak implement democracy, and then turned away and he nothing when he did not.  
     What must the United States do now to keep the heat on the military government?  
     AJAMI:  Well, I think Anne-Marie has it right.  I think what we need is we need to keep the faith in democracy.  We can't just simply say because this incident happened or that incident happened, then the cause for democracy is dead.  Remember one thing.  New Year 2011, New Year 2011 there was a big arson in the main Coptic Church in Alexandria, the church of St. Peter and St. Mark.  
     So this is not us really just this chaos, just this democratic process, old pharaoh himself, Hosni Mubarak, never, never took up the question of the challenge of the Copts and the place of the Copts. Egypt is a trendsetter.  If Egyptian transition fails, may Allah help this region.  
     KING:  And Anne-Marie, what must other governments including the United States do to make sure just to send a clear signal to the military, that do not use any violence, do not use any unrest, do not use any question marks to say we need more time, we need to delay the elections?  
     SLAUGHTER:  Well, the U.S. military had been pulling out all stops, all contacts back in February with the message that a professional military does not fire on its people.  And that has to be the first message that a military of the caliber of Egypt's military or professional military does not turn its guns much less its armored personnel carriers on its own people.  
     That's the first message because the violence has to stop, military on citizens, but then absolutely it has to be, look, you are -- you have been the stewards of this transition, but there must be a transition.  That's important for Egypt.  That's important for the entire region.  
     KING:  Ben, often when you have a horrific incident like this, people spend the next day or the next days stepping back to try to understand what happened.  What has happened here and what should we do about it.  In the conversation the day after in Egypt, is there a lot of talk that will the military delay the elections?  
     WEDEMAN: No, there's no talk that the elections will be delayed. Of course, they're scheduled for November.  What we are seeing is a lot of Egyptians sincerely concerned with this situation, with this violence, and when we were at this hospital today, the Coptic hospital, we did see Muslims, Muslim women, Muslim men, coming to give their condolences, to give their sympathy to the people because there is, in fact, a bedrock of national unity here in Egypt, but people see these events, this kind of violence and they're worried.  
     They are worried that there will be no winners if there's a sectarian conflict that Egyptians have lived together, Muslims and Christians. despite many incidents over the years.  By and large they've lived in peace together and many people realize that the alternative to this current situation is much, much worse.  
     So there does seem to be a grassroots effort, despite the inabilities or abilities of the government and the military to smooth things over, to calm the situation down because people have seen in Iraq and Lebanon and elsewhere in the region the price of sectarian civil war is far higher than anybody wants to pay -- John.  
     KING:  Perfectly put, perfectly put, no winners if this continues.  
     Ben Wedeman, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Fouad Ajami, thank you so much.  
     And let us know what you think.  We're on Facebook, or follow me on Twitter @JohnkingCNN.  
     Up next Herman Cain is rising in the polls and the GOP presidential candidate also making headlines for his controversial plan he says will fix the U.S. economy.  We have the "Raw Politics."  
     Plus was the U.S. killing of a U.S. foreign militant cleric, Anwar al-Awlaki, was it legal?  What the U.S. Justice Department memo says about the drone attack.  Coming up.  
     First though, let's check in with Isha Sesay.       ISHA SESAY, CNN ANCHOR:  John, we have a special weeklong series, "BULLYING, IT STOPS HERE."  Listen to what one student faces at school.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     BRIDGET, STUDENT AT THE WHEATLEY SCHOOL:  I would get comments like you're a slut, you're fat, you're a whore, you're disgusting.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     SESAY:  No child should hear those words.  Tonight the groundbreaking results of our study in bullying.  Why bullies do what they do and what can be done to stop it.  Just and much more when 360 continues.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     KING:  "Raw Politics" tonight.  Herman Cain is a candidate on the rise.  The GOP presidential hopeful is surging in recent polls.  Could it be linked to his economic plan?  What he calls the 999 plan?  
     The founder of Godfather's Pizza says the "Occupy Wall Street" protesters, thousands of them now in New York and across the country, have got their anger all wrong.  Listen to what Herman Cain said yesterday.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     HERMAN CAIN (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I don't know where it's going to go but they need to go away.  Because in my opinion they're focusing on the wrong thing.  Wall Street didn't pass a trillion- dollar stimulus bill that didn't work.  Wall Street didn't create these economic policies that are not working.  This was done by the White House.  They need to be protesting the White House, not Wall Street.  
     Secondly, this is just taking class warfare to another level. That's all it is.  Class warfare doesn't work.  Although it will get some people to start to thinking in those terms, but they're protesting against the wrong entity.  They didn't pass these ineffective failed policies.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     KING:  That's the Republican presidential candidate Herman Cain. So what does he think can be done to fix the U.S. economy?  Cain claims his 999 plan is the answer.  Here's how he touts the plan on his Web site.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     CAIN:  Our tax code is the 21st century version of slavery.  The IRS has become the overseer of the American people.  
     In a Herman Cain administration, April 15th will no longer be a day to be dreaded.  My 999 economic roads and jobs plan is a major step towards tearing the chains off the backs of the American people.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     KING:  Here's the breakdown on the 999 plan.  Mr. Cain wants a 9 percent business flat tax, a 9 percent individual flat tax and a 9 percent national sales tax.  
     That's not all.  Cain is calling for the end to the payroll tax and estate tax among other changes.  His plan would bring in about $1.77 trillion.  Right now our current tax system brings in more than that.  At least $2.16 trillion.  So that leaves about an 18 to 20 percent gap.  And that's been met with some criticism on the right and a lot on the left.  
     Joining me now CNN political analyst Roland Martin and CNN contributor, editor of the conservative redstate.com, Erick Erickson.  
     Erick, let's start with the criticism on the right.  Some of the toughest criticism has come from fellow conservatives who say not the way to go.  Why?  
     ERICK ERICKSON, EDITOR IN CHIEF, REDSTATE.COM:  Because if the Republicans were to pass the 999 plan, they would, in effect, be the party that introduced the national sales tax into the United States.  
     Now the Cain campaign says that this is -- this is phase 1-A and then 1-B headed to phase two which would be getting rid of the 16th Amendment, getting rid of the ability of Congress to enact an income tax into a fair tax.  But you'd have to have two-thirds of both Houses of Congress, three-quarters of the states to get that done.  
     And a lot of conservatives are scratching their heads, saying, you know, conservatives are real good at stemming the tide of this. Are we going to introduce a national sales tax in addition to an income tax, in addition to a business tax?  And then Republicans lose control of the Congress or the White House, it could go up from there. 
     KING:  Roland, I'm not smart enough to say good idea or bad idea. But I do know this.  If the federal government suddenly get 18 to 20 percent less money, meaning $1 in $5 essentially disappears, already we see these guys paralyzed dealing with spending and deficits and priorities.  What would they do then?  
     ROLAND S. MARTIN, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST:  Well, John, here's what's interesting.  Herman Cain talks about state's rights.  If you enact his sales tax, that doesn't mean you -- you totally remove the sales taxes that you see right now in cities, counties and states. And so you're talking about his 9 percent sales tax plus what you're already paying in the states.  
     It's not like the state governments are going to say, oh, sure, Herman Cain, great, we'll just give more revenue away.  He's not even calculating that particular aspect in there.  But he keeps saying, oh, no, the numbers bear out.  I have economists who looked it over.  But then you say, well, who are they, but he won't release their names.       And so how can he talk about being transparent if you can't even give us the names of the people who so-called vetted your plan.  It makes no sense.  
     KING:  You say the plan makes no sense.  Roland, make sense of this.  New Gallup numbers out tonight reflect what we've been seeing in some other recent polls.  Let's take a look right here.  
     Cain has surged right there into the top tier.  He's just under former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney.  
     Is it time for people to stop thinking this is some weird anomaly?  
     MARTIN:  No.  
     KING:  Cain.  
     MARTIN:  No.  Because remember Michele Bachmann surges, wins Ames, Iowa, straw poll, falls back.  Rick Perry, comes in, hey, he could be the number one draft pick.  He surges, debate, immigration stance, he falls back.  
     The person who's sitting in a perfect position is Mitt Romney because in all of these polls he's sitting at the top.  Also this is the point I keep making.  None of this stuff matters.  2007, then Senator Barack Obama was down 30 points to Senator Hillary Clinton at this point.  
     The only thing that matters is what takes place in Iowa come January 3rd, New Hampshire, South Carolina, Florida and Nevada.  And so all of this stuff right now is irrelevant.  You still have to run. And it's a lot more time before any of that takes place.  
