
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired January 29, 2012 - 15:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>ALI VELSHI, HOST:  Fairness and the economy.  Can one presidential election really fix what's broken in America's economic system?  I'm Ali Velshi.  Welcome to YOUR MONEY. 
President Obama delivered his State of the Union address earlier this week.  Critics would call it his first major campaign speech in his bid to win re-election.  Now, in that election he'll need an opponent, and just days before Tuesday's critical GOP primary in Florida, Mitt Romney was in Jacksonville to let voters know he was less than impressed with the president's economic message.  
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
FORMER GOV. MITT ROMNEY, R-MASS., PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  He said he was the candidate of change, but you still have 25 million people out of work.  You still have almost 10 percent unemployment here in Florida.  
You still have home values down and continuing to go down.  You still have record number of foreclosures in Florida.  You still have median incomes suffering, middle income families suffering.  
(END VIDEO CLIP)
VELSHI:  Florida is an epicenter of the housing crisis that put us into the great recession of 2008 and 2009.  CNN senior political analyst David Gergen joins us from Jacksonville.  
David, Mitt Romney is not only focused on President Obama, he's got Newt Gingrich to deal with as well.  Florida was one of the states that was hardest hit by the housing crisis.  Its unemployment rate remains above the national average.  
So is Tuesday's primary going to end up as a referendum on whether voters who are focused on the economy can get behind Mitt Romney as the man to best fix it?  
DAVID GERGEN, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST:  Probably so, Ali, but I must tell you that this has become such a personalized race, and it's sort of -- they've gone --  Romney and Gingrich have gone mano a mano now in these several debates.
And we've had all this focus on sort of a boxing match between the two of them that I think that is sort of more dominating the way people are thinking about this and whether Mitt Romney has a better plan than Newt Gingrich does to fix the economy, it's gotten so personal.  
But having said that, I do believe that the debates have now put Romney in a commanding position heading into Tuesday.  He's very likely now to win the Florida primary.  And trade (ph) after the debate with CNN Thursday night put the chances of him winning Florida at 90 percent.  
So he'd be -- you know, he's the heavy favorite here now.  And if he wins Florida, he's more likely to win the nomination, and then his economic plans and his policies are really going to be put to the test.  
VELSHI:  Right.
GERGEN:  Because I think most voters haven't sorted out quite what he's going to do yet.  
VELSHI:  And in these many debates, we really do tend to lack specifics.  Once in a while somebody comes up with a plan that's highly specific, and we in the media world set about to try and test that plan.  
But generally speaking, the idea of creating jobs, the idea of lowering taxes, the idea of tax reform, the generalized idea of health care and immigration is not specific enough.  
Stephen Moore is an editorial writer with "The Wall Street Journal". Stephen, President Obama emphasized this notion of fairness or unfairness in our economic system when he talked about taxes during his State of the Union address.  Listen.  
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  When Americans talk about folks like me paying my fair share of taxes, it's not because they envy the rich.  It's because they understand that when I get a tax break I don't need and the country can't afford, it either adds to the deficit or somebody else has to make up the difference.  
(END VIDEO CLIP)
VELSHI:  Now, I'm going to presume, Stephen, that you don't even agree with the premise, that if somebody gets a tax break that they don't need, that it adds to the deficit because there are people who argue that that creates economic growth or it stimulates spending or investment.  
But you don't need to read too much into what the president was saying to see that the connection that he's drawing, particularly to Mitt Romney, who this week revealed that he made close to $43 million over the last two years but paid a tax rate of about 15 percent -- because most of that money was investment income and that's what the law says. Capital gains is 15 percent.  
I'm sure you don't like the president's plan to make sure that millionaires pay at least 30 percent in taxes.  But what's your sense of -- you know, can you acknowledge the fact that there are people that think the current system does seem unfair?  
STEPHEN MOORE, EDITORIAL WRITER, "THE WALL STREET JOURNAL:  Hey, it seems unfair to me, Ali.  I've been writing about this for 25 years. I think the tax system is an abomination.  I think it needs to be blown up and start over again.  
Here's one problem I have with the president's message, leaving aside how much millionaires should pay and so on.  Look, we have an economic crisis on our hand.  We still have those -- Mitt Romney has been saying about 20 to 25 million people unemployed.  
There in Florida you've got, you know, so many homes, millions of homes and millions of homeowners underwater on their mortgages.  
So my point is really shouldn't we be emphasizing economic growth as the first principle rather than fairness?  I think that's a vulnerability for the president.  I'd like to see the Republican candidates, Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich, really hitting harder on that exact theme, that, look, fairness is fine.  But what we need is a rising tide of economic growth that, as John F.  Kennedy said, lifts all boats.  
And just to dovetail on something David was saying, you know, the problem Republicans are having right now is that they are slugging at each other and they're kind of forgetting the adversary here is, of course, the guy they're going to have to face in November.  
VELSHI:  Whomever the successful candidate is going to be may go into this presidential election limping a little bit.  
Diane Swonk is the chief economist at Mesirow Financial.  Diane, the U.S. economy, we just learned, grew at 2.8 percent in the fourth quarter, the fourth -- the last three months of 2011, compared to a year ago.  It's nothing to sneeze at, 2.8 percent, nothing to celebrate either.  
We're looking back all the way into 2010 and what economic growth has done, it's come down, it's leveled out and then it's started to go up again.  I guess the theme of this recent recovery is slow and steady and it's a major part of the reason why the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben Bernanke, says he's not ready to pop the champagne corks when it comes to people getting back to work.  
Listen to what he said.  
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BEN BERNANKE, CHAIRMAN, FEDERAL RESERVE:  In light at the anticipated modest pace of economic recovery, the committee expects that over coming quarters the unemployment rate will decline only gradually.  
(END VIDEO CLIP)
VELSHI:  All right.  So let's just take Stephen's point for a second, Diane, let's put aside the fairness discussion, whether or not you think it's correct.  Let's talk about growth.  What comes first in the recovery of this economy, economic growth or jobs which put money in people's pockets, which then causes economic growth?  
DIANE SWONK, CHIEF ECONOMIST, MESIROW FINANCIAL:  Well, clearly you can't have growth without jobs, that's the bottom line.  
And I think it's really important to understand that much of the gains that we saw in the third quarter, although it was an acceleration in growth, came from a catch-up in inventories, that now that that catch- up from the auto sector, after the Japanese earthquake last spring, now that that is sort of playing out, that won't be there to support growth.  
In fact, domestic demand, final domestic demand slowed quite dramatically.  Over 2 percent of that 2.8 percent gain was inventory gains alone that won't be there to support growth in the first quarter.  
And it's why the Fed is so still very concerned about growth in the U.S. economy and trying to provide some level of certainty in terms of providing stimulus for the economy through its communications when there's so much uncertainty and just, you know, a lot of lies and things going on in the political spectrum that I don't even want to address.  
GERGEN:  Yes.  You know, Diane, can I just mention something about this?  You know, we had an editorial in our paper called "The Zero Decade."  
We've had close to zero interest rates by the Fed now for five, six, almost eight to 10 years.  And this idea that we can keep stimulating this economy with a free flow of money and record low interest rates, I'm just not so sure, Diane, it's a strategy that has worked very well.  This has been a lousy decade for growth --
VELSHI:  Well, that's a good point --
GERGEN:  -- with the Fed holding those rates down.  
(CROSSTALK)
SWONK:  Well, let me interrupt you, because I --
VELSHI:  It's a good point because I don't know -- Diane, I want you to answer this, but I'm not sure the Fed is saying they can stimulate any further.  We're at zero.  
GERGEN:  Right.  
VELSHI:  I think all they're saying is we're not going up.  What's your answer to that, Diane?  
SWONK:  Actually no, I don't think that's true at all.  
And I think -- I actually read your editorial, Stephen, and I didn't like it.  So I didn't agree with it because I don't think it was very informed on what the Fed is actually trying to do.  Agree or disagree, the Fed is using communication strategy, learning from the Great Depression and learning from the mistakes of Japan, that you can do more at the zero boundary, that Keynes actually was wrong when he came to that conclusion when you hit zero interest rates there's nothing you can do.  
In fact, the Fed has done a lot.  They did a lot when they announced the mortgage buy-back program and mortgage-backed securities and retriggered a program that keys (ph) up in terms of any kind of mortgage lending in 2009.  The announcement effect of that alone was tremendous.  
So the Fed expanding their balance sheet, doing out-of-the-box thinking, has had a major effect in terms of stemming the losses and triggering some level of growth.  The problem is the headwinds.  
And I believe the greatest headwinds we face today are political in nature and political uncertainties from Europe, the Middle East to the U.S.  Those are our biggest stumbling blocks and we probably agree at some level on that level.  
VELSHI:  David?  
GERGEN:  Yes, I just wanted to make a couple of points.  I do think this conversation illustrates and underscores what Diane was just saying.  
I think the -- what's the conversation in politics does not seem to me to fit very well the nature of the problem, the structural problems that we have, that we -- at the center of a  lot of our political argument now is whether the tax rates ought to be raised on the upper income.  And you can agree or disagree about that.  But if you raise them, that's not going to solve some of the structural problems.  
VELSHI:  That's right.  
GERGEN:  We have a real problem creation with jobs now.  We, with this growth that we've experienced in 2011, the economy today is bigger than it was before the recession hit.  And yet we have 6 million fewer jobs than we did before, at that time.  We have had a real problem creating jobs, and I don't know what the answer is to that.  
Even if you keep interest rates down at zero, that is not going to necessarily create the jobs.  So where are those jobs going to come from?  I think the candidates have to engage --
VELSHI:  Yes.
GERGEN:  -- at a more -- at a more macro level and help us understand what their alternative paths are out of this, so that you do get a more vibrant economy that actually creates jobs.  
VELSHI:  I know you and I weren't in the same place for the debate, but you're taking the words out of my mouth.  I wanted to -- I just feel like throwing pillows at the screen every time to say, come on, guys, give me details.  Tell me what exactly you're going to do, because that's the conversation we need to have.  
I want you to stay there.  I got a second -- Stephen, you're a big fan of paying the bills.  I've got to pay the bills, so hold on, we'll come right back.  Stay where you are.
The top man in President Obama's economic team, by the way, says you won't have him to kick around for much longer, regardless of who wins the White House in November.  There's going to be a change near the top.  I'll tell you about it when we come back.   
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
VELSHI:  Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner told Bloomberg Television this week that he does not expect to be part of President Obama's administration, should the president win a second term.  That's hardly news.  Geithner's impending departure is the worst-kept secret in Washington.  
But the timing of his latest remarks is a bit curious.  CNN polls continue to show that four out of five Americans feel that the economy is in poor shape and they give the president low marks on his handling of the economy.  
David, I want to ask you this, because you've sort of connected the threads on the economy and growth and fairness to politics.  Is the timing of Secretary Geithner's comments designed to make it clear that a likely target of many Republicans is on his way out, so don't spend too much energy on him and the policies he's associated with?  
GERGEN:  I'm not sure there was -- I don't read a lot into the timing of this recent statement because he's made it clear before he was -- he's only staying on because the president really pressed him and he's now simply saying I don't think the president is going to do that again.  
The president, obviously, has come to rely upon Tim Geithner.  He's turned to him, you know, to have frequent conversations with the Europeans, especially Chancellor Merkel and others, about the Eurozone and because there's such fear in the White House that that might be -- you know, that could upset their apple cart.  
And presidents do become reliant on Cabinet secretaries.  Hillary Clinton is another example of someone who is also leaving.  But, Ali, it's also an opportunity.  When someone leaves like that, you have an opportunity to find the next person who can send signals about your intentions.  
If he finds someone who is not only well respected internationally but is a deficit hawk, someone who is really committed to bringing these -- this debt under control, that would help him working on Capitol Hill, help him politically, it would help him with the financial community, it would -- he's got an opportunity now to reach out to the financial community, the business community in ways that Tim Geithner, for whatever reason, hasn't been seen as the bridge that they were looking for.  
Yes, so there are a lot of things you can get that are pluses for you as a president when you have a major job opening like that.  
VELSHI:  Stephen, what's your take on this?  
MOORE:  I don't dislike Tim Geithner personally.  I think he's a good man, and, in fact, I think the fact that he understands financial markets has been pretty critical for this administration.  But I'd also have to say I give him pretty close to failing grades.  
I mean, as you -- the statistics that you just rattled off about how half of Americans still think we're in a recession, obviously, we've had a very mediocre-at-best recovery.  
And so I think that, you know, one guy I'd like to see brought in, just as some food for thought here, Ali, would be somebody like Paul Volcker, somebody who was very involved in the big recovery we had in the 1980s.  I mean we need a big, robust expansion.  
And the big problem for the president right now is, even though the economic signals are suggesting a pickup, a lot of Americans aren't feeling it at home.  
VELSHI:  Which leads a lot of people to the question we started with, which about fairness.  
Diane, I want to get back to this idea that we have an economic system that is unfair to millions of Americans.  We continue to say that it now appears that, you know, capitalism itself might be on trial.  So forget the politics for a second.  
As an economist, do the numbers tell you, when you look at all the economic indicators out there, do or can the numbers tell you that America has an unfair economic system?  
SWONK:  Absolutely.  I mean we forgot -- we have neglected education in this country.  We hit a peak in educational attainment in the 1970s, as other countries continued to educate people in the 1970s moving to the 1980s.  
At the very moment, the information age and ideas were being rewarded more than manual labor.  The bottom 50 percent of income earners in the United States has stagnated or lost ground in terms of income since that period of time, with the top 90th percentile or the top 10 percent who have graduate degrees and more education were beneficiaries, because there was a shortage of them.  
That gap between the 50 and 90th percent was filled with debt.  That was sort of more expedient for us in our capitalist economy with deep and liquid capital markets at the time than actually educating our people and sending them to educate themselves.   
You know, we had the G.I. bill, we had all kinds of things.  We took people from the farms and brought them into the factories.  We educated them, we made them literate.  We did things that were pushing education for much of the 20th century and, at the end of the 20th century, gave up on that.  That's a structural problem that is absolutely relevant in the numbers, and it gets to the broader issues that we were talking about earlier that, you know, the candidates are not dealing with the real structural problems in the U.S. economy, you know, dealing with these sound bites of unfairness in income and equality.  They do exist, but they are rooted in very decade-long problems.  
VELSHI:  Are we going to get to that point, Stephen, where we were all listening to these debates or whatever candidates are doing and saying, hey, we've got some real options, one versus the other on the table, that would be real solutions for our economy?  
MOORE:  Well, look, I think this big issue, I mean, just to frame this whole debate, it's going to be a debate between fairness being pushed by President Obama, and hopefully a growth platform by the Republicans, probably Mitt Romney.  
And I think that's really the decision Americans are going to make. Do they put fairness ahead of growth?  I reject this idea that if the economy grows, it only helps rich people.  
Diane, if you look at the data from 1980 through -- 
(CROSSTALK)
SWONK:  I didn't say that it only helps rich people.  
MOORE:  No.  No, I'm just saying --
SWONK:  I just said the income inequalities are there.  
MOORE:  Yes, but it's also true that the middle class did really pretty well over that period, you had about a 30 percent increase in real incomes.  The problem has been the recession has just crushed people and we've had no recovery in incomes, wages or jobs.  
