
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired March 15, 2012 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Erin, thanks.  Good evening, everyone.  
     We begin tonight "Keeping Them Honest" with a cache of e-mails. The private communications of the dictator of Syria and his wife. Hacked e-mails leaked to CNN.  E-mails that appear to reveal some of Iran's influence over Assad and his handling of the uprising.  
     The e-mails also show what the dictator and his wife had been concerning themselves with while the soldiers and thugs who work for them have been slaughtering their own people by the thousands.  
     It was a year ago today in the city of Daraa that Syrians stood up to Bashar al-Assad's regime and demanded change.  Now back then they weren't calling for the overthrow of the regime but then days later the government began its bloody crackdown.  
     For 12 months now, Assad's regime has lied about killing its own people.  Night after night on this program we've called them out on their lies but we haven't been able to say what the dictator of Syria and his wife were thinking.  What they've been worried about, what they've been talking about.  
     Well, now we can.  In an e-mail on August 4th, Assad's wife Asma ordered jewelry from a cousin's boutique in Paris.  She writes, "Sorry I took so long to reply but I've only just got back the final request. One, turquoise with yellow gold diamonds and small pave on side.  One Cornaline with yellow gold diamonds and small pave on side.  One full black Onyx with yellow gold diamonds.  One Amethyst with white gold diamonds.  Let me know how to proceed," she asks.  
     Around that same time of that e-mail in August, around the same time that Asma Assad had that e-mail exchange with a friend, she had another one with the daughter of the Amir of Qatar.  Her friend writes, "From what I see, there's so many innocent lives being lost. I think with the introduction of new legislation, it's a natural time to address the nation with the intention of stepping down."  
     Asma Assad writes back, "There's perception and there's reality." Her friend responds, "Isn't perception what determines reality?"  
     In August, while Mrs. Assad was worrying about jewelry and having that exchange in the city of Hama, citizens were being fired upon, shot dead in the streets.  On August 22nd, the U.N. said more than 2200 Syrians had been killed.       Now on November 20th, just days after the Arab League had suspended Syria's membership, and Jordan's King Abdullah had called on Assad to resign, Assad's wife e-mailed a friend who's apparently planning to visit.  "Are you coming around the 2nd or before," she wrote.  "If so, please, can you bring the 'Harry Potter: Deathly Hallows Part 2'?"  Which was released on 2nd of December.  
     Thousands of civilians are dying in Syria's streets.  Other countries are calling on her husband to step down and Syria's first lady is busy tracking down the latest installment of "Harry Potter." On December 29th, Bashar al-Assad used an e-mailed sam@alshahab.com, e-mailed one of his aides.  He writes, "Check out this video on YouTube.  The link is to a spoof video that mocked a theory that the regime had hidden tanks from international observers in Homs."  
     And here's what was happening in Homs at that time where Arab League monitors were on their mission.  In Baba Amr, civilians take a monitor in the orange vest to see the body of a small child.  Also in Homs, at that time, indiscriminate shelling was already reducing neighborhoods to rubble.  
     A month later, with the siege of Homs in full swing, what was Asma Assad focused on then?  Fondue.  On January 20th she sends an aide a link to a fondue set asking, please, can we get one?  And then there's this on February 5th, Assad's e-mail his wife -- Assad e-mails his wife the lyrics to a Blake Shelton song.  
     Here's some of those lyrics.  "The person that I've been lately ain't who I want to be, but you stay right here beside me, watch as the storm goes through and I need you."  
     While Assad was sending love song lyrics to his wife, in Homs, a man who's part of the opposition held a body of a dead child, a little girl he says was killed by Assad's regime.  
     A short time ago I spoke about these e-mails with photojournalist Paul Conroy who was wounded during the Assad regime's assault on Homs and with Fouad Ajami, a senior fellow at Stanford University's Hoover Institution.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     COOPER:  Fouad, the level of nonchalance in these e-mails from this dictator, Assad, is just -- I mean I guess I shouldn't be stunned by it, but I am.  I mean you talk about fiddling while Rome is burning.  
     FOUAD AJAMI, SENIOR FELLOW, STANFORD UNIVERSITY'S HOOVER INSTITUTION:  Well, exactly right.  There is nothing really unusual about this, by the way, Anderson.  Many years ago a great philosopher gave us a big -- a wonderful book.  It was Hannah Arendt, she went to Jerusalem to watch the trial of Adolf Eichmann, and she wrote this incredible book, called "Eichmann in Jerusalem: The Banality of Evil." 
     She discovered how small was Eichmann for all the great crimes he committed.  And there is Bashar al-Assad and there is Asma al-Assad. They're trading these e-mails.  She's worried about shopping.  He's downloading his music.  And meanwhile, Syria is on fire.  And meanwhile the great crimes -- even in the city of Homs, which is the ancestral city of his wife, are being killed and massacred.  So there you have it.  
     COOPER:  And, you know, I mean, these e-mails for Mrs. Assad who, in years past, was kind of viewed as this, you know, cosmopolitan, intellectual lady, welcomed in the West, and written about in Western magazines and fashion magazines.  It's just sickening reading her e- mails, talking about fondue sets and jewelry and, as you said, I mean, Homs is where her family is from.  
     AJAMI:  Remember, this is the woman Asma al-Assad who was born in London, by the way, to a Homs family.  She worked for JPMorgan.  She's who was dubbed by "Vogue" magazine, a rose in the desert.  She's the partner of Bashar.  He basically put her out, if you will, for the world to see that this is his modern wife and this is the modern couple.  And now you see that these people are, while their followers, while their people are using pin sets (ph) to skin people alive, they are -- they are trading these silly e-mails and they are worried about shopping, and they're worried, as you said, about fondue sets and shoes and the like.  
     COOPER:  Paul, you call Bashar the calmest killer of the century. 
     PAUL CONROY, PHOTOJOURNALIST:  Absolutely.  You know the image that we see of this man when he -- when he talks, the nonsense that he comes on TV and he says about nobody is dying in Syria.  When I heard of these mails, of the e-mails, it doesn't surprise me.  I think as time has gone on we look at this man who can present this image of utter (ph) calm (ph) and respectability yet they -- the barbarity, the -- his overseeing.  
     I wish I was shocked but I'm not shocked anymore.  I think I've seen too much now of this man and yes, probably the calmest killer of the century.  
     COOPER:  Yes, I mean, he's downloading --  
     (CROSSTALK)
     COOPER:  -- music from iTunes, he's passing around clips from "America's Got Talent" and in the next breath, I mean, he's slaughtering his own people and, you know, trying to kill people who are using the same Internet to try to upload videos of the slaughter that he and his forces are putting upon them.  
     CONROY:  Absolutely.  I mean, this man, he exists in a parallel universe.  I think that any -- he seems to have lost any connection with humanity.  I mean, this man is insane and the world should actually stop listening and act and forget any -- doing any pacts with this man.  
     COOPER:  Well, I mean, the U.N., you know, is waiting for a study to be done by the Syrians to assess the humanitarian needs when we know what the humanitarian needs are.  We've seen the videos of kids who haven't had food in weeks or just eating crust or bread.  And -- I mean it's -- I guess these e-mails won't come as a surprise, Fouad, to Syrians?  
     AJAMI:  No, I think they know all about them.  The one thing that they will, if you will, if they see them, if they read them, and given the problems they've endured, given the hell they're living through, they may not have access to them.  But when you read that his wife is getting a discount at (INAUDIBLE) in London for some of the things that she's buying, when you read these things, you understand what this regime was all about.  It was about terror and the repression for the people of Syria and privileged for the rulers of Syria.  
     COOPER:  Well, it's also sickening, I mean, you know, shame on any department store that gives her a discount, shame on any designer that swaddles her in clothing.  You know shame on anybody in -- outside who -- you know, who continues to kind of treat them as if they have a place in the civilized world.  
     AJAMI:  Well, shame on the advertising man here in one of the advertising agency, Mike Holdsman, who's exchanging e-mails with one of the sycophants of Bashar.  She had once been an intern at this advertising agency, and he's worried, how are the Assads holding up, how are -- what are they going through?  
     These is the democracies.  The West always does this and particularly if you bring someone in the Islamic world and you trot them out and you say that they are modern, that they know fashion, they dress well, what they do to their people is hardly of any consequence.  
     COOPER:  You know, Paul, I mean, you witnessed Homs with your own eyes and your colleague Marie was killed by the regime's forces.  You know, while Assad presents this Western front, explain it just a little bit, maybe to people who haven't been following this, what you saw with your own eyes happening in Homs in terms of the needs of people there to get medicine, to get food and to stay alive.  
     CONROY:  I mean a simple survival in Homs was virtually impossible.  People were firstly on the constant artillery bombardment.  Heavy weapons, artillery that was used should be used against armies that's being fired directly into civilian neighborhoods.  
     This caused the people to have to flee buildings that were destroyed, food supplies became nonexistent.  I know people who risked their lives to carry loaves, packets of bread through the Syrian army lines, water became a commodity.  Medicine was nonexistent.  These were all the basics of human existence but denied to the people.  
     COOPER:  Fouad Ajami, appreciate it, as always.  Paul Conroy, I appreciate you, interrupting your treatment to talk to us tonight to continue to focus on this.  Thank you, Paul.  
     CONROY:  Any time, Anderson.  Thank you.  
     COOPER:  Well, let us know what you think about this.  E-mail us, we're on Facebook, Google Plus, follow me on Twitter @Andersoncooper. Let's have a conversation about it right now on Twitter.  
     Coming up, "Raw Politics."  Controversy over contraception.  What kind of access should women have to birth control?  Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum say it's an issue of religious freedom.  Democrats are trying to frame it as a Republican war on women.  Mary Matalin and Hilary Rosen join us next.  They'll square off.  
     Also ahead, former Mississippi governor, Haley Barbour, continuing to refuse to answer questions about pardoning hundreds of criminals, a few in particular who got special treatment including new cars when they were released.  We were told Barbour was unavailable all month which doesn't seem to be actually true.  We're "Keeping Them Honest."  
     Let's also check in with Isha -- Isha.  
     ISHA SESAY, CNN ANCHOR:  Anderson, breaking news.  A tornado touches down in southeastern Michigan.  We'll have the latest on the damage.  That and much more when 360 continues.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     COOPER:  "Raw Politics" tonight.  If you listen to Democrats in the last few weeks, you've no doubt heard them say there's a war on women in the Republican race for the White House.  Controversy over contraception is nothing new, of course, but its profile has been raised in part because Rick Santorum, a staunch opponent of birth control and abortion, is a frontrunner for the Republican nomination, and because of an effort by the Obama administration to make sure that insurance offered by religious institutions covered contraception.  
     Things only got hotter recently when one of Santorum's biggest donors said this.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     This contraceptive thing, my gosh, it's so -- such inexpensive. You know, back in my days, they use Bayer aspirin for contraception. The gals put it between their knees and it wasn't that costly.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  Well, Santorum called that a stupid joke and everything his supporters say doesn't reflect on him which is certainly a fair point.  Here's what Rick Santorum himself has said about the issue.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     RICK SANTORUM (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  It's the church's money and forcing them to do something that they think is a grievous moral wrong.  How can that be a right of a woman?  That's not -- has nothing to do with the right of a woman.  This has to do with the right of the church not to spend their resources in a way that's inconsistent with their faith.  
     This is the kind of coercion that we can expect.  It's not about contraception.  It's about economic liberty.  
     I do have concerns about women in frontlines combat.  I think there could be a very compromising situation.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  Well, Mitt Romney also joined the praise, saying just a couple of days ago he'd get rid of federal funding for Planned Parenthood.  
     But both he and Santorum said the contraception issue is about religious freedom, not contraception.  They say making employers cover contraception on their insurance plans violates religious freedom.  
     In a recent Bloomberg national poll, more than 60 percent say it's a health care issue, not a religious one and more than 75 percent said it shouldn't even be part of a political debate.  
     But that hasn't stopped the Democrats from pouncing on the issue in recent days, accusing Republicans of declaring war on women.  And on the campaign trail, there is a lot of talk about women.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Women are going to make up their own mind in this election.  
     Women deserve an equal day's pay.  Because of this law, preventive care is now covered and, yes, that includes preventive care for women, checkups, mammograms, birth control.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  Well, joining me now is CNN political contributor, Republican strategist, Mary Matalin, also CNN political contributor and Democratic strategist, Hilary Rosen.  
     So, Mary, you saw the poll number.  Six in 10 Americans are saying that this isn't about religious freedom.  Is this a losing issue for Republicans?  
     MARY MATALIN, CNN POLITICAL CONTRIBUTOR:  Absolutely unequivocally not.  That was one poll and it depends how you ask it. In "The New York Times" poll, in the CBS poll, in myriad other polls when majorities of Americans, including women oppose the government, the full force of the government to intrude on First Amendment rights -- First amendments guarantee of religious rights.  
     I'm saying, women, when it's posed that way and that's how the regulation is written and that's what not just Catholics but it's multidenominational, have made an argument not as forcefully as the Obama people have, to switch it, to frame it up, when they -- when they say what it actually is, people oppose it.  But equally important, probably more important is what you led with.  Three- quarters of Americans, including women, do not even think this is a political issue.  Equal numbers, three-quarters of Americans, including women, think the top political issue is the economy.  
     It's not an issue.  And they don't want the government to be dealing with birth control.  So I've strategically, the president has made a grievous political error here, I believe.  
     COOPER:  Hilary, do you see that as an error?  I mean, as far as Democrats go, critics are saying they're playing politics on this. We're seeing ads, mailers, fundraising, appeals from them, and a lot of talk about women on the campaign tail from the Obama administration.  
     HILARY ROSEN, CNN POLITICAL CONTRIBUTOR:  Well, I mean, first of all, the president did not make this a political issue.  The president issues a regulation to try and accommodate, implementing a law that Congress passed, and the Republicans and -- went out and started opposing it and jumping on it.  
     It is the Republicans who are opposing reauthorizing the -- the Violence Against Women Act today in the United States Senate.  It's Mitt Romney who's on the campaign trail saying, let's get rid of Planned Parenthood.  These are not Democrats going out there.  To the extent that Democrats are actually telling voters what it is that the Republicans are saying, you bet we are.  
     And here's a key issue, which is, you know, when men have medical issues, they are medical.  When women have medical issues, they seem to be political.  And I think what women are sick and tired of is having their health issues politicized and framing this as a religious liberty issue is equally infuriating.  I think, you know, why isn't the -- why isn't Catholic Church out there ranting and raving about not serving pork on Fridays in their cafeterias.  
     The only thing that they seem to, you know, want to take to the streets on is something that discriminates against women who don't agree with the men in the church.  
     COOPER:  Mary?  
     MATALIN:  Oh, Hilary, please, the Catholic bishops and Cardinal Dolan have tried to work with the White House.  They sat there for a week, waiting for an accommodation which turned out to be --  
     ROSEN:  An accommodation --  
     (CROSSTALK)
     COOPER:  Let her finish -- let her finish what -- no, let her finish what she's saying.  
     MATALIN:  Hilary.  Hilary.  Please.  
     COOPER:  Go ahead, Mary.  
     MATALIN:  They are -- this is a 2,000-year-old Catholic belief that the natural order of things is love, marriage, sex, procreation. So the overwhelming majority of American people including women do not want their religious liberties invaded.  They -- all we're asking is this.  In this very narrow issue exempt religious institutions and those that are affiliated with religious institutions and this would go away.  But it won't go away because the president hasn't vented this war on women.  
     And I -- I'm going to agree with you on this point.  If we're against subsidizing -- using taxpayer dollars for birth control or sexual sorts of drugs, then we're waging a bigger war on men because we don't want taxpayer subsidized erectile drugs and arguably I think that's a much bigger issue for men -- I'm not a scientist but anecdotally after decades I think that's a bigger health issue for the men. 
     ROSEN:  But the Catholic --  
     MATALIN:  Than birth control is for women.  
     COOPER:  But guys --  
     MATALIN:  The Catholic Church is not going after any men's health issues.  They are not making those value judgment.  It's only about women.  And you know here's the issue I think that we have to focus on, which is, you know, women are going -- are watching now.  You know, and this is -- this is going to be an issue that is waking up women.  
     The gender gap in 2008 for the election was, you know, over 10 points, the difference between senator -- then Senator Obama and John McCain.  In 2010, it evened out.  This is going to widen that gender gap.  Women are sick of having our reproductive health and our health issues be politicized and used on the campaign trail.  
     COOPER:  And Mary, Mary --  
     MATALIN:  Yes.  
     COOPER:  I mean, couldn't you argue that both sides are using this as a political issue?  I mean the Republicans certainly raised the stakes on this issue between Rush Limbaugh's comments, Rick Santorum's comments on the trail, they saw it as a religious liberty issue and that as something that would mobilize people to come out and vote, and on the Democratic side they see it as a women's health issue and that's something that's going to mobilize women voters who they believe are going to side with the Democratic Party.  
     MATALIN:  Right.  The president specifically turned it into a women's health issue, and a war on women because -- let me translate for you, Anderson, because women are dropping him like a bad first date.  He had a nine-point gender advantage the last time, he's down to less than half that.  
     Mitt Romney is not even on the field yet and he's only down by four points.  Mitt Romney has no gender gap.  But I think this is insulting to women.  They do not think there is a birth control problem.  They do believe, as all Americans do, that it's a government out of control problem.       So what is happening here is every -- all of his enthusiasm, the intensity and the support among all this demographics, starting with women who -- the president is right, are going to make a difference in this election are leaving the president because they are insulted by making them focus on this.  Any woman who's going to be jazzed up by this are not people who would ever, ever vote for Romney as he gave them birth control and a man to go with it.  
     ROSEN:  You know, my friend Mary is, you know, engaging in wishful thinking here.  She may be right that this is not an issue that's -- important.  But it is -- her candidates, Rick Santorum and Mitt Romney who are running around the country trying to get elected on this.  By saying they're going to get rid of Planned Parenthood, by saying that there's a war on, you know, religious liberty using what was a regulatory issue to be a political issue.  
     You know, it is the Republicans ginning up this issue, it's the Republicans refusing to reauthorize a statute that has been on the books for years.  
     COOPER:  Hilary, both sides are using the issue.  
     (CROSSTALK)
