
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired September 11, 2011 - 15:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>(THIS PROGRAM WAS INTERRUPTED FOR MORE 9/11 ANNIVERSARY COVERAGE. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS FROM THE 9/10 AIRING, WHICH WAS ALSO INTERRUPTED, BUT ONLY IN THE LAST FEW MINUTES.)
CHRISTINE ROMANS, HOST:  President Obama wants $447 billion to create jobs.  The president calls it a jolt, not a stimulus.  But it is. Still, the big question remains, will it work?
I'm Christine Romans.  Welcome to your YOUR MONEY.  Ali Velshi is off this week.
Here's what's in it.  The American Jobs Act includes payroll tax cuts for 98 percent of businesses, a tax credit for hiring unemployed veterans, modernization of 35,000 public schools, a tax credit for hiring the long-term unemployed and a provision to help refinance mortgages at very low interest rates.
Stephen Moore is an editorial writer with "The Wall Street Journal." Stephen, the White House is steering us toward analysis from well- known economist Mark Zandi, a frequent guest on this program, who says this plan, if it was enacted in its entirety, could create almost two million jobs.  Let me guess, you're skeptical.
STEPHEN MOORE, "WALL STREET JOURNAL" EDITORIAL WRITER:  Well, I am skeptical.  I'm friends with Mark.  I've known him for a long time. But you know, he's been pretty wrong on his projections on jobs.  He's the one who said that we were going to create three-and-a-half million jobs if we passed the original stimulus bill.
An amazing statistic, by the way, Christine.  I just looked up these numbers.  You know, we have one million fewer jobs today than we did in February of 2009 when we created the $800 billion stimulus plan. So a lot of this hasn't worked.
And let me just use a football analogy, if I may, since we're in football season.  If you run the ball up the middle three times and you don't gain any yards, on fourth down, you don't run the ball up the middle again.  And that's essentially what the president is proposing here, is a lot of these proposals that you just mentioned, Christine, are things that were in the original stimulus plan or the payroll tax credit -- we did that in January of this year.  None of it has really worked to create the kinds of jobs.  So I'm very skeptical.
ROMANS:  All right, Harvard professor Ken Rogoff is the former chief economist for the IMF.  Ken, in order to find a solution, let's make sure we understand the problem here.  Simplest terms you can think of, why can't we create more jobs in this country right now?
KEN ROGOFF, HARVARD UNIV., FORMER CHIEF ECONOMIST, IMF:  Well, there are two basic problems.  One is we're in the worst recession, whatever you want to call it, since World War II and it's lasting a long time. We're coming out of it slowly.  And of course, there's the slow, grinding overhang of our growing trade with Asia, the growth of China, India, Brazil.  And that also is hitting American jobs, particularly for lower-educated workers.
ROMANS:  So is it right to throw money at the problem right now in the near term?  What it sounds to me like you're talking about is some structural -- big structural issues, Ken, in the economy.
ROGOFF:  Well, I'd certainly like to see some big structural solutions coming out of this crisis, coming out of Congress and from the president.  They don't seem to be able to agree on everything.
That said, I don't think it's wrong to necessarily to try to at least not pull back the stimulus.  That's what's going on right now.  You have to put something new to replace what you're taking out.  But think of this like taking aspirin when you're pretty sick.  It'll make you feel a little better, but this isn't a cure.
ROMANS:  All right, we have a football metaphor.  We have an aspirin metaphor.  Gloria Borger, I can't wait to come up with (SIC) she comes up with.
(LAUGHTER)
ROMANS:  CNN's chief political analyst.  A CNN ORC poll, Gloria, finds two thirds of Americans say creating jobs is a more important goal for this administration than reducing the deficit.  Gloria, the president called for a joint session of Congress to deliver that jobs plan. Clearly, he wanted the American people to view him as a leader on job creation.  Did he convince Americans?
GLORIA BORGER, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL ANALYST:  Right.  Well, we're going to have to wait and see.  He was talking to independent voters out there, those swing voters that are so important, that are so upset about the fact that Congress isn't able to get anything done.
And what the president was trying to do was to say to voters, Look, I am the reasonable man.  I'm laying down a gauntlet for Congress.  They can decide if they're going to take it or they're going to leave it. But if Republicans out there decide that they don't want to take this package, they're going to have to explain to the American voters why.
What was very important was the president said, I'm going to take this on the road, which means the game is on here for the 2012 campaign. And he's clearly positioning himself, a la Harry Truman, against a Congress that if it doesn't act, he's going to say, They're do- nothing.
ROMANS:  You know, Stephen, one -- repairing schools, 35,000 schools in the face of budget cuts and giving states more money so that they can keep teachers in your kids' classroom, the hiring benefits for unemployed veterans -- there are things in here -- you go down the line, it's going to be hard for a Republican seeking reelection to stand up and say, I have voted against American veterans.
MOORE:  Yes, look, I agree with a lot of what Gloria just said.  I mean, there's no question that jobs is priority number one, no question, with the voters.  And it's also true that the voters want some quick action here.
The problem, Gloria, is that if you look at the last election, I mean, why did Republicans win this resounding election?  What was their central promise?  We're going to stop the spending.  We're going to stop the debt.  And so to then turn around and say, Oh, by the way, we're going to have to pass a half trillion dollar new spending and debt deal, I'm just not so sure...
BORGER:  Right.  And...
MOORE:  ... that goes down very well...
BORGER:  I agree.
MOORE:  ... with the people who voted for these...
BORGER:  I agree.  And we were waiting for the other shoe to drop, which is on September 19th, when the president says he's going to lay down his plan for the super-committee.
MOORE:  Right.
BORGER:  And that is apparently going to include how to pay for this. You know, the one interesting thing I heard from the president, which is that he's willing to take on his own Democrats on the question of Medicare reform.  So let's see how far he goes with this.
MOORE:  Yes, but you know what?  I've been in Washington for 28 years. You've been in this town for a long time.  I mean, the one promise that is always made that is always broken is that, We're going to spend now and save money later.  We never do that.  I mean, we've been doing that since the -- since the late 1970s, and that's the reason we have a $15 trillion debt.
And what the president's going to say is, By the way, we're going to cut spending in 2018 and '19 and '20, two presidential elections from now.  I mean, who -- who really believes that?
ROMANS:  Let me bring in Ken because an interesting thing here is people will say that they want to balance the books and they want deficit reduction and they want, you know, to live within our means until they realize that the entire country for years has been built on living a little bit beyond our means and sometimes a lot beyond our means.
Ken, When people realize that budget cuts mean jobs and maybe their job could be lost, then they change their tune a little bit. ROGOFF:  Well, they certainly do.  I mean, Americans have wanted lower taxes and more spending for a long time.  Now they say they want not to have so much debt, but they still want lower taxes and they don't want to cut the spending too much.  I mean, I think it is a very angry populace.  And I think a hard thing for the president as he, you know, tries to present a rational plan to these very angry voters who are quite unpredictable.
ROMANS:  Yes.  Ken, do you think this would create jobs if the president, in some ideal world -- ideal for him and not ideal for his opponents in the House -- if he were to get this whole thing through, would it create jobs?
ROGOFF:  Yes, I think it would create some jobs.  Putting a number on it's really hard.  But I don't think there's any question that these awful debt negotiations and debt deal that they had over the summer sort of overdid it in the short run, with cutting back stimulus while the economy is still weak.  It didn't really do anything.  They kicked it all to the super-committee, like Stephen said, pushed everything into the future.
This is more of the same.  It's getting pushed into the future.  But we are in a very deep downturn at the moment and need to be very careful.
MOORE:  But you know, Ken, I read your book.  I loved your book.  I think every economist should read it.  I think there's so much wisdom in that.  But the one thing I would maybe challenge you on a little bit is what I glean from reading your book is that on this recession that we're in, this is a classic kind of debt recession, where Americans at the business level, at the individual level, and of course, at the government level are overleveraged.  There's too much debt out there.
And what I don't get about all this -- and this is my kind of question for you -- is if we have too much debt, how is more debt the solution to getting out of this crisis?  I think it's probably exactly the wrong thing to do right now.
ROGOFF:  Well, I certainly agree, Stephen, that this idea of a jolt, and suddenly, you'll be better again is wrong.  And the president did talk about doing something about the mortgages and the housing. That's where I'd like to see more of the focus.  I think that would really help pull us out.
ROMANS:  All right...
ROGOFF:  I'm not giving a blanket endorsement to it, but just saying we really need to be careful.
ROMANS:  All right, more on this in a minute, guys.  Let's take a break here quickly.
The economy is slowing down again.  Recession fears are everywhere. If it's about to get worse before it gets better, just how long can we expect the downturn to last?  We're going to look at that next.  Don't go away.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
ROMANS:  Well, economists differ on whether America is headed for another recession, but most Americans find that question irrelevant. Eighty-two percent of those responding to a recent CNN ORC poll say we're currently in a recession.
Ken, if four out of five consumers are walking around right now feeling like this is a recession, then a continued slowdown seems to be inevitable.
ROGOFF:  Well, it's not a good sign.  I mean, the only thing I can say is these polls have a lot of interpretation in them, and what consumers are doing matters more than what they're saying.  You know, not so long ago, in July, durable goods -- refrigerators, things like that -- were actually picking up rather crisply.  So maybe the hard numbers are not as bad as the mood.  But if the mood keeps this way, of course, it will feed into the hard numbers.
ROMANS:  You know, Stephen, is this a crisis instead of a recession, which may require an entirely different approach to achieve a typical recovery, do you think?
MOORE:  Well, I think it does need a total different approach.  I mean, when Ken was talking in the previous segment about this being the worst recession since the Great Depression, in some ways, it is. But the 1970s, that whole period from the late '70s through '81, '82, I think, arguably, that was even a worse time for economic decline for this country.  Stocks lost 67 percent of their value in real terms.
And what makes this different from that recession that we had in the '80s is that Reagan came in and did use an entirely different approach.  He deregulated the economy.  He got federal spending under control.  He fought inflation.  And we did a big tax cut.
And I think, you know, within 18 months of that presidency, we had an incredible expansion.  We were creating about 250,000 jobs a month.
So I guess I would say, look, if we got the policies right, there's no reason this has to be a three or five-year-long recession.  I think the economy can turn around pretty quickly, but I don't think these prescriptions that we're using right now are working very well.
ROMANS:  So you think, Stephen Moore, that the president's policies are what's delaying a recovery.  But Ken, I mean, you've written about this pretty extensively.  What we went through was pretty horrific. It's going to take time, no matter what anybody does.
ROGOFF:  Yes, I disagree with Stephen on this one.  I mean, I think this is worse than what we were in the in the '70s.  That was bad, but I'm sorry to say this is worse.  And the state of the financial system, the financial crisis, typically is associated with something much worse.
I do think we could have expected three or four years of very difficult employment.  But the trouble is, it's not looking better still going further out.  And it's a legitimate question.  Well, should we try something else?  What should we be trying?  That's a fair question.  I don't think anyone -- I think -- if John McCain had won and became president in 2009, I don't think it'd be real different today.
BORGER:  Christine, you know, I think the political problem here is that we're trying to spend and we're trying to cut at the same time.
ROMANS:  Right.
BORGER:  And we're -- the American public wants everything.  And that's what politicians want to give them.  So they want to say, OK, we really care about deficit reduction, we understand that's the key to the future.  On the other hand, we want to spend some money and give you your -- extend your payroll tax cuts so that we can put some more money in your pockets.
So it's a very difficult political situation not only for the president, but also for the Republican Party and for members of Congress, whose approval rating, by the way, is at 14 percent.  So they understand the public wants them to get something done.
MOORE:  But there's also been -- if you look at the data -- and I've been looking at this very closely.  I think there's been a misdiagnosis of what the problem is with the economy.  The kind of Keynesians that Barack Obama listened to say, The problem is, we don't have enough demand.  We don't have enough consumer spending.  But in fact, if you look at what's happened since late 2009, consumer spending has been rising at a pretty -- you know, not a robust pace, but it's been rising.
What has fallen dramatically and has not caught up to where it was pre-recession is business investment.  And I'm just a big believer that investment, spending by businesses, is what creates growth.  And you're not going to get growth in spending...
ROMANS:  Stephen, I thought all those years of tax cuts were going to make people -- the wealth creators want to, like...
BORGER:  Right.
ROMANS:  ... create jobs and spend money and build the infrastructure. Why didn't that happen?
MOORE:  Well...
BORGER:  And in the president's plan -- in the president's plan, he talks about small business and helping small business.  And there are some things in his jobs proposal...
MOORE:  True.
BORGER:  ... that would encourage small business to hire, which I think Republicans will embrace, right? MOORE:  Yes, but Gloria, don't forget, the other thing he said last night is, We're going to pay for this with a big tax increase on small business in 2013.  Small businesses don't hire on the basis of one or two years.  They're looking forward and saying, The president's going to raise taxes on employers in 2013, that's a negative.  That's bearish for the economy.
ROMANS:  I know, Ken, I think demand is what makes small businesses hire and makes -- I mean, everybody wants demand, right, Ken?
ROGOFF:  They do.  But I certainly agree with Stephen, they have misdiagnosed this as a typical recession.  They've said that we need a big jolt of spending or stimulus, or whatever you want to call it, and we'll get out of it.  It is not a typical recession.  In fact, we never got out of the last one.
(INAUDIBLE) I think President Reagan did a great job, a great president, but you know, nobody's perfect.  We almost had a catastrophic savings and loan crisis.
MOORE:  True.
ROGOFF:  We almost had a big financial crisis from over-deregulation.
BORGER:  Right.
ROGOFF:  It's very tough to be president in these situations.
ROMANS:  It's tough being president in even the best of times.  And I do think -- and I bet you guys all agree -- that presidents get too much blame and too much credit.  You know, bottom line, they too much blame and too much credit, and there's a lot of different moving parts.  But you do need leadership and confidence, and that's what we really are looking for right now.
Ken Rogoff, thanks so much, Stephen Moore, Gloria Borger...
MOORE:  Nice to be with you.
ROGOFF:  Thank you.
ROMANS:  ... another great discussion, guys.
Republican presidential candidates have a thought or two, or in Mitt Romney's case, 59 thoughts on just how to create jobs.  But will any of their plans make a difference?  We're breaking it down next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
ROMANS:  The first thing I ever learned covering the markets is that gridlock is good for business.  Diane Swonk is chief economist at Mesirow Financial.  And Diane, full credit to you.  A year ago on this program, we were heading into a mid-term election.  We knew that it would result in Republicans at least taking over the House.  You stood up against that conventional wisdom.  You said this was exactly the wrong time for gridlock in Washington.  You were so right. Since then, we've had a near government shutdown, a debt ceiling crisis that resulted in an unprecedented downgrade of our country's credit rating.  We now have competing jobs plans from both the president and some of the Republican presidential candidates.  And more importantly, we've got an economy that literally didn't create any net new jobs last month.
Do you think things will get better in the year to come?
DIANE SWONK, CHIEF ECONOMIST, MESIROW FINANCIAL:  I think the status quo is more likely.  The problem is we're about a 50-50 coin toss chance of recession at this stage of the game, and I think that's one of the hard issues as we debate all these different jobs program.  The reality is, the old models, the historical models that tend to give us estimates of what they might do for the economy just don't work.
You already had Ken Rogoff say, you know, a post-financial crisis economy is just different.  It really is different.  And I think that's what is the problem here, is that people keep trying to use the old solutions to new problems.  And that's not going to help us, although it is important to preserve the status quo because as bad as the status quo is, it could be worse.  And many of the proposals that are out there will help to preserve the status quo, and that's what we need to focus on at this stage of the game.
ROMANS:  I mean, the president's jobs plan, is that preserving the status quo and that's the best we can do right now?
SWONK:  Well, parts of it.  The whole plan, no, it isn't.  And there are parts where they, you know, made estimates.  Models have estimated it would create as many as two million jobs.  I think as much as I respect and admire the people who make those estimates, I don't agree that that's how many jobs will be created out of it because of the structural problems we face.
That said, there are parts of the president's plan that are very important.  We can't have a tax hike, which would be the equivalent of letting the payroll tax cut expire at the end of the year, at this critical time.  Unemployment insurance benefits are keeping a floor on consumption.  So being able to keep treading water and keeping our head above water, even though it doesn't really feel like we're moving forward to most Americans, is really critical because the alternative is going under.
ROMANS:  All right.  Roland Martin is a CNN contributor.  You know, Roland, the unemployment rate for January 2008 when President Obama took office was 7.8 percent.  Today, it is 9.1 percent.  Last month, the economy didn't create any net new jobs.  Republicans argue this is because of his policies, not despite them.
Roland, why aren't the president's policies then creating more jobs?
ROLAND MARTIN, CNN CONTRIBUTOR:  Well, first of all, that's if you accept the Republican rationale, which is absolutely idiotic, because somehow, it ignores the rest of the world.  And so we're sitting here acting as if that what a president can do alone somehow can fix the economy.
Look, we gave banks money under the view that somehow, they were going to lend the money out.  They didn't.  They shored up their balance sheets.
Also, our economy is all based upon consumer demand, consumer spending.  If you don't have the confidence, they don't spend.  If you own a restaurant, you're not going to add more employees if you don't have more customers.  And so it's ridiculous to somehow think that a presidential policy alone somehow would drive this.
We're operating in a whole new world these days, and politicians don't want to accept that.  Any time you hear Republicans and Democrats say, This is the sole reason, they're playing a political partisan game and not a real game of what's happening in the real world.
ROMANS:  All right, guys, let's -- I want to take a look at the economic plans that Republican candidates would put into action, if elected.  I mean, overall, the candidates overlap on a few, you know, conservative ideas.  You know, they all want to cut the corporate tax rate, repeal, quote, unquote, "Obama-care," shrink government.  You know, so that's the traditional sort of conservative model.
