
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired February 26, 2011 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ALI VELSHI, HOST:  The countdown to a possible government shutdown is on.  
     I'm Ali Velshi.  Welcome to YOUR MONEY.  
     Friday, March 4th is the deadline for a compromise or else the federal government literally stops performing all nonessential services.  
     Stephen Moore is an editorial writer for the "Wall Street Journal," a friend of our show.  
     Stephen, Congress has gone down to the wire many times like this and averted a shutdown in most cases.  What does a deal need to look like to keep the lights on in Washington beyond Friday?  
     STEPHEN MOORE, EDITORIAL WRITER, "THE WALL STREET JOURNAL": Well, Ali, you're right.  In most cases the doomsday scenario is averted, but you remember 1995 and 1996 when we did have a government shutdown and that was that famous budget standoff between Bill Clinton and Newt Gingrich.  
     So it could happen, Ali, and nobody wants it to happen, although neither side is taking steps to avoid it from happening.  If it happens, it means that virtually all the -- what we call the nonessential functions of government stop operating.  
     VELSHI:  And the one thing a lot of people have been asking us about is Social Security.  Those checks will still go out.  But a lot of things won't happen.  Most people don't think about how tied in they are to the federal government until something like this happens.  
     Harold Meyerson is an editor at large for the "American Prospect," his is an op-ed columnist with "The Washington Post," he also tends to disagree with pretty much anything Stephen Moore says. Harold, look at this.  A USA Today/Gallup poll out this week shows that nearly two-thirds of Americans -- let's call it 60 percent of Americans want Democrats and Republicans in Congress to compromise to avoid a shutdown rather than stick to their guns.  Thirty two percent say stick to your guns, wherever your guns happen to be.  
     HAROLD MEYERSON, EDITOR AT LARGE, "THE AMERICAN PROSPECT":  Let's start right here, what would a budget deal look like, Harold, if you and Stephen Moore, because it's the left and the right, could meet in the middle, which is what 60 percent of Americans seem to think they'd like Congress to do.  
     Well, I think when the American people say they want the government to meet in the middle and reach a compromise, they don't have that clear an idea of what they want funded, what they don't want funded.  I think this is very hard stuff because the Republicans in the house have said the condition for reaching a deal is you've got to agree to our $61 billion of cuts for the remainder of this fiscal year, all out of discretionary domestic spending.  That's got to be very hard.  And I agree with Stephen Moore, not to -- 
     VELSHI:  What?  
     MEYERSON:  Totally upset the cosmic balance here.  I agree neither side is really reaching out and saying, you know, let's make a deal here.  I think it's very hard.  And I think the point to keep in mind is like the shutdown of '95, '96, this comes politically at a similar time.  There's a new Republican Congress, the momentum in that Congress is all from the right, and they think they want to -- I think they want to go to war on this, and it's hard to -- it's got to be hard to make a deal.  
     MOORE:  It's interesting because when I talk to the Republicans, I think they have a credible case that, look, they told the American people in these November elections what they wanted to do.  They said they were going to cut $100 billion from the budget, they said they were going to take that spending baseline back to 2008 and they won one of the biggest elections in history.  And just as Barack Obama said after 2008, I won the election, I get to do what I want, and I think that's what Republicans are saying now.  
     VELSHI:  It's an interesting point.  Let me bring in David Gergen on this thing, because what you're both talking about is whether somebody's got a mandate to fix things.  What we're not talking about, none of those things are actually compromise.  
     David, the same poll I just talked about also showed the public is divided on who is doing a better job on the budget.  This is a problem.  
     President Obama and the Democrats on one side at 39 percent.  The Republicans in Congress on the other with 42 percent, 16 percent unsure.  So I'm wondering whether this budget compromise is likely to be about compromise or it's likely to be about reducing the deficit so that we can reduce the debt, or it's about political gain.  
     DAVID GERGEN, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST:  At this point it's mostly about political gain.  In many ways it's a phony war.  Because all the headlines are about whether we're going to cut 30, 40, 60, 10 million dollars out of the budget, but as everyone here knows that fight is only over a tiny proportion of the budget, it's only over a proportion of the budget that represents 12 percent of spending. Nobody is having the big debates; we've got to have the mega debates, about what we're going to do about entitlements, defense and taxes.       Nobody wants to hit those big issues, and everybody knows and Washington knows, it's no secret that you can't get to a real balanced budget unless you take on entitlements, defense and taxes.  So I have to say, this is more about political jockeying.  And at this point, I agree with Stephen that the Republicans had momentum coming out of the election.  But where they find themselves now I think is that neither side has traction with the public on this issue.  Neither side has the high ground.  
     VELSHI:  Right.  
     GERGEN:  There is no solid majority right now.  
     VELSHI:  Well, David, you've been in those offices.  You've been an adviser to several presidents.  Tell me why we're not dealing with the obvious stuff, the entitlements.  Why is that not something that President Obama has done?  Is it because he knows it has to be done and he's forcing the Republicans to be the ones to say deal with it? Why is that leadership not coming from the president?  
     GERGEN:  Well, it's once again one of these questions, you know, the president's telling Republicans, you go first and the Republicans say, no, no, no, Mr. President, you want to go first.  You're the president, you're the leader.  And both of them are trying to avoid getting being the first ones over, get their heads above the trench line because they know how many shots they're going to take.  But it is not leadership.  
     When you try to duck, as both sides are now doing, you cannot call it leadership.  And the country's going to pay a big price for this, unless they get serious.  Now, I have to say, Ali, if one side can come out of this victorious, if the Republicans were to come out of this victorious, it would give that side some momentum, heading into the bigger fights ahead, again, over entitlements, defense and taxes.  So the jockeying is not unimportant, but it's phony in terms of what the real needs are of the deficit.  
     VELSHI:  Well let me ask Harold.  
     Harold, I think one of the problems we've got in this country is like you said, our polls say that American say to Congress compromise, but don't do that, don't touch that, this that and the other thing. In particular on the president's side is the left not giving the president permission to do what he needs to do, including compromise and tackling these entitlement programs?  
     MEYERSON:  Well, I think there's very little public sentiment, as you just noted Ali, for cuts to Social Security and Medicare.  And so -- and particularly on the Democratic side.  These are programs that the Democrats originated and have always been identified with, and many of us on the progressive part of the Democratic Party think it'd be hugely injurious to the economy and the people's purchasing power, things like that, if you made any serious cuts to things like Social Security.  
     And then on the immediate particulars of the cutbacks that the Republicans have proposed for the continuing resolution, it's a political agenda.  It goes after the agencies that regulate Wall Street, things like that.  This has no impact on the budget; it has real impact on Republican priorities to create a totally regulated economy.  
     VELSHI:  Hold on, I'm going to let you get back to that.  I'm going to take a break so we can pay some bills but I will pick up with you.  David Gergen, Stephen Moore, Harold Meyerson stick around.
     The countdown to the shutdown, it sounds ominous but what exactly what would a federal government shutdown mean to you?  Stephen Moore is going to have his response right after this.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     VELSHI:  11:59 p.m.  next Friday, March 4th just before the stroke of midnight, that's zero hour for Republicans and Democrats to reach a compromise, or the government shuts down.  Now, what does that actually mean for your daily life?  Let's bring in my good friend Christine Romans.  She hosts "YOUR BOTTOM LINE" every Saturday at 9:30 a.m. -- Christine.  
     CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  It means if you're going to need a passport in the next few months, you better get it renewed right now.  It also means if your eighth grade class is planning a trip Ali to see the Lincoln Memorial well you might be shut out if the government is closed when you get there.  
     Here's what closes if there were a government shutdown, first of all, parks, monuments, museums, they all could close.  They did in 1995 and 1996 the last time this happened.  Toxic waste cleanup could be stopped.  Federal employees without pay, hundreds of thousands of them, that means passport application offices, getting a gun permit, if you are in bankruptcy court, bankruptcy cases, all of those things grind to a halt.  
     The things that do stay open Ali, anything with national defense, law enforcement, the things that are the very essential bare bones of the government.  The mail, for example, stays open.  Social Security checks, those would still be delivered.  There would be enough employees on deck to make sure that those go out but there would be thousands of other Social Security workers who would likely be furloughs.  Law enforcement and lawmakers, Ali, lawmakers who make, you know, $174,000 a year, they would still get their paychecks. Generals, the president and lawmakers still get paid even though hundreds of thousands of federal employees would be furloughed.  
     VELSHI:  I think we live in a safe civil society, we don't think about our connections to government until things like this happen. Christine, thank you so much.  
     Stephen Moore, I cut you off last time, so you've got half an answer to give us, let me just ask you another question.  We talk theory all the time.  But in real terms that any average American would understand, what scares you the most about a potential government shutdown?       MOORE:  Well, I don't want to see a government shutdown but it's not the end of the world, either.  I mean if people can't go to the Washington Monument for a few days it's not the end of western civilization.  Look my point is Ali we do have a crisis much bigger than a few-days government shutdown and that crisis is borrowing $1.6 trillion a year which I think is really destroying the economic fabric of our country.  
     What I was going to say before the break is I'm a little frustrated with Harold because if you listen to what he said, he said we can't cut Social Security, we can't cut Medicare, we can't cut education, we can't cut transportation, I mean, Harold, what do you want to cut?  I agree with David Gergen, David, I think you're right, if there's going to be a deal, Republicans are going to have to agree to some cutbacks in defense programs.  I think that should be on the table.  But there's no deal if liberals say we can't cut anything.  
     VELSHI:  Harold.  
     MEYERSON:  I think we can cut some things but I think the main problem -- where you and I disagree, Stephen, is on what the main problem with the economy is.  What I see is a lack of private sector investment and I don't think they're being crowded out by the public sector.  I just think most major American businesses have a growth strategy in other countries rather than here.  That's where the growing markets are and that's where the cheaper production is and we're moving there.  So my view which is classic Keynesian is that the public sector needs to step up its investment in things like transportation because that's where the investment is mainly going to come.  And if it doesn't come from there, we are stuck in the worst recession since the 1930s and we're not going anywhere.  
     MOORE:  Harold we did that for two years and it didn't work.  
     VELSHI:  Let me ask you David.  We had a government shutdown in 1995, similar political circumstances a Democratic president, Bill Clinton, Republicans coming off a big midterm victory, now that shut down did seem to kill some momentum for those congressional Republicans.  Both parties today talking tough on the deficit.  Which side has the most to lose this time?  
     GERGEN:  Well, there's no question that Bill Clinton outfoxed the Republicans and reversed the momentum and went on to win reelection in part after the government shutdown.  This time around I do think the Republicans go in with a stronger hand.  Because going back to Stephen's point, they did go to the polls this last November and said we want to cut spending and they got a large -- they won a significant victory.  So they have that behind them.  They have the win behind them.  
     But I have to say, there are a couple things here.  The danger for Republicans is overreaching.  If they go too far they're going to turn off people.  That -- we've seen that same kind of danger in Wisconsin with Governor Walker.  I think most people would agree with him that public employees have got to belly up and take more of the load but to get rid of their collective bargaining rights, as you know from the polls, people are opposed to that.  So they have to watch out for the overreaching.  
     But the other thing is Ali, there's so much uncertainty right now surrounding the Middle East.  And with the spike in oil prices there's going to be a real reluctance I think to shut this government down for very long.  We've had these reports from Goldman Sachs, this predictions from Goldman Sachs in the last few days saying you shut the government down for a week and it is going to take a dent of the.8 percent, that is almost one percent of growth in that quarter.  You know we only had 2.8 percent growth last quarter.  This economy cannot take too many jolts.  
     VELSHI:  Yes.  
     GERGEN:  So it's going to be incumbent on both sides to try to reach an agreement given the volatility we see in the world.  
     VELSHI:  And Harold, 30 seconds to you.  Give me some sense of the handicap this for us.  Do you think the government shuts down next Friday night?  
     MEYERSON:  I think it may.  Because even though I think both sides think it's more advantageous to reach a compromise, that's in theory.  In practice, I don't know what it is they're going to agree on.  If Republicans insist on cuts which the administration is not willing to make, this could be like the start of World War I.  No one wants it to happen but it happens.  
     VELSHI:  But if you don't do something to specifically avoid it, that's the important thing.  Saying if you don't want it to happen isn't actually going to be enough to avoid the government shutdown. We have got to see stuff happen this week that actually positively avoids it.  David, always a pleasure to see you.  
     GERGEN:  Thank you.  
     VELSHI:  Stephen Moore thank you for being with us.  Stephen actually stick around because you are sticking around for our next discussion, Harold Meyerson great to see you, thanks gentlemen.  
     Well as states look to tighten budgets are unions being unfairly targeted?  We are going to try to answer the question next.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     VELSHI:  I know if it were up to you, you wouldn't spend your weekends talking about budgets but it's important and it is not just the federal government budget that we are talking about.  Remember states are facing budget crisis of their own.  
     Randi Weingarten is the president of The American Federation of Teachers.  Randy the issues we are seeing in Ohio, in Wisconsin, in Indiana and other states have to do -- they're focusing on teachers right now and I think there are a lot of Americans who think that teachers and teachers unions might be being unfairly targeted by those states looking to tighten budgets.       But let me ask you this, a conversation we've had before and it's going on across America.  Is there something that these public service unions and these teachers unions can do to give some ground in what seems to be of some practices that people don't like?  For instance, these issues of tenure, the last person in are always the first one to go when there are layoffs.  Talk to me about that.  
     RANDI WEINGARTEN, PRESIDENT, AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS: Well Ali, of course there are things that we can do and frankly we've spent the last couple of years talking about shared responsibility and we've laid out a lot of ideas about how we make schools better.  How we increase teacher quality, how we make schools better.  But let me just go back on one issue, which is the budget crisis was not of the public employees.  Whether they're teachers or snowplow drivers, it's not of their making.  This budget crisis started because of the worst recession since the great depression.  Even though they don't get any credit for it, a lot of what happened with the stimulus actually held a lot of the crisis of states at bay.  
     So right now with the money ending from Washington, we see this kind of state crisis right now, and it's agonizing because it's asking people who want the services to have to decide, are they really going to get the services.  Now, in Wisconsin, in Ohio, in other places, the public employees have stepped up.  But the governor of Wisconsin won't take yes for an answer.  He'd rather actually end collective bargaining, end their voice at work, than actually let them step up and do what they have said that they would do.  
     VELSHI:  Let's bring Stephen Moore back into this discussion. Stephen it is strange, because while Americans do want to have reform of the public service and of some of these unions, take a look at this USA Today/Gallup poll, 53 percent of Americans would oppose a move to reduce the budget deficit by cutting the pay and benefits of state employees, that state employees get from their government.  Forty four percent backed the idea.  Stephen, what of this business of attacking unions and trying to do away with collective bargaining?  Where does that get these troubled states?  How does it earn them another dollar? 
     MOORE:  Well, look.  I think the reason you're starting to see the public get behind some of these reforms like you mentioned teacher tenure reform, bringing the pensions into line with what private sector workers get, I mean, there's a fundamental unfairness I think here that the American people are seeing.  That private sector workers get pensions and health care benefits that are only about half as generous as public employees.  That's simply not fair and it's not unaffordable.  You've got these gigantic gaps in these state budgets -- 
     VELSHI:  But answer me this.  We can discuss and argue and agree and disagree on the reforms, it does appear in Scott Walker's case in Wisconsin, the governor of Wisconsin, that it is union busting.  That he's going about getting rid of rights that have really helped workers in this country.  The ability to collectively bargain.  Why are you so against that?  
     MOORE:  Well, because what it's led to is these incredibly over inflated pensions and health care benefits.  And I think the real problem here with these collective bargaining agreements is it means more and more education dollars are going to these pensions and health care benefits and less of the dollars are going into the classroom to help kids learn.  And look we have an education crisis in this country.  We've got to do something about it.  That includes pension reform and by the way, I'd love to hear Randi's ideas about can we finally get rid of tenure so we can get rid of bad teachers.  
     VELSHI:  OK we will get to that in a second.  First let me bring Christine Romans in.  Hang on a second Randi I want to bring Christine Romans in because Stephen is talking about some numbers here.  Let's talk about numbers, not scary boring numbers but simple dollars and cents about unions and union workers.  
     ROMANS:  OK.  According to the U.S.  Bureau of Labor statistics, in 2010 Ali a union worker earned about $917, a nonunion earned $200 less.  Spread that out over all of last year, union earned $47,684 while nonunion workers earned $37,284.  Bottom line, union workers earned 27 percent more than nonunion workers in 2010.  
     VELSHI:  OK.  So you and I have discussed this a lot.  These numbers are examples of unions doing what they were originally designed to do.  Increase worker protections, help their wages come up, where does this leave us now?  Because that now is used as ammunition against the unions.  
     ROMANS:  And here's the other issue.  It's not just union representation that is at work in the economy, right in the labor market.  There's also technology that's allowing for the outsourcing of jobs.  There's also higher productivity that goes with technology, there's also big budgets.  There's a lot of different things happening here.  So when you compare union workers to nonunion workers, sometimes it's not a straight comparison.  
     When you're talking about teachers, I will tell you this week a lot of teachers told me that they felt like they were being personally attacked.  They didn't like to be portrayed as someone who was sucking off the public dime, you know?  I mean some teachers are saying, look I put in all of these hours.  I don't just work nine months a year.  I make $38,000 or $48,000 a year depending on where you are a what state, and I don't make a lot of money.  When you try to tell me you want to take away some of my pension or my benefits, they don't like to hear that.  And they say that you can't take a teacher and swap it out for an accountant or journalist for that matter, that their job is very different.  
     VELSHI:  All right.  Randi, let's talk about the tenure issue which does seem to be the sore point for a lot of issues when we're talking about teachers unions.  The rest of us operated America democracy we're hired and/or kept on by virtue of how it is we perform.  Why can't we do that in the world of teachers?  I understand why we didn't set it up that way, and it was useful to not do that. Why can't we evolve into that?  
     WEINGARTEN:  Let me just answer Stephen's point initially.  
     VELSHI:  Sure.  
     WEINGARTEN:  Which is that there's about 30 states that allow collective bargaining for the public service.  The other states that don't have just as bad, if not worse, budget deficits.  In terms of compensation, if you just look at pensions and benefits, you're not looking at total compensation.  Look what Christine just said.  The average pension in Wisconsin for a public worker is $26,000.  And ultimately what happened in terms of public workers is that there was a quid pro quo.  There was a social contract that said they took less of a salary and had more benefits so that they had a plan for retirement.  
     Now on tenure, this is a false choice.  No one wants bad teachers.  Not teachers, not parents, not anyone.  The real issue here is that we haven't had a good evaluation system.  And my union and others have looked to how do we overhaul an evaluation system and how do we align due process with it.  It's a false choice to say either no process or cumbersome process.  
     And ultimately if you look at what teachers do, we are responsible for everything in a child's life.  Now, maybe that's not fair, I don't think it is.  But ultimately that's what we try to do in instruction.  And it's for all kids, not just some kids.  And so ultimately we need to have a fairness process, not simply being told what to do and when to do it and that's what those teachers were telling Christine.  
     Teachers work their hearts out to help kids but they need to be supported and they need to be treated with respect and dignity.  At the same time, our union has gone and focused on how do we improve quality hugely so that teachers are the best they can be but also have fairness attended to it.  
     VELSHI:  Randi thanks we will leave it at that.  Randi Weingarten is the president of the American Federation of Teachers; Stephen Moore is an editorial writer with "The Wall Street Journal." Christine stick around we are going to talk a little bit more.  
     All right.  If you think the unrest in the Middle East and northern Africa is happening a world away, it's not going to feel that way when it comes to your money.  Why you could soon pay more for just about everything, after the break.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     VELSHI:  Crude oil prices soared this week, rising as high as $103 a barrel.  That's the first time in more than two years that prices crossed the $100 threshold.  Take a look at this chart courtesy of our good friends at CNNMoney.  This is just from the end of January on the left side of your screen until the end of February on the right side of your screen.  Look at that increase in the price of a barrel of crude oil futures here in the United States.  
     Now that spike came as civil unrest mounted in Libya, and some foreign oil company's suspended production in that region.  Richard Quest is host of CNN International "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS."      Richard, we saw oil react as those tensions grew in Egypt and Bahrain, now Libya that is Africa's third largest oil producer.  Talk to me about oil rising to levels that actually threaten our global economic recovery.  
     RICHARD QUEST, HOST, CNN INTERNATIONAL "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS": Well, that's of course the problem.  No one really knows the risks that are out there, and how this thing is going to play out, Ali.  You talk about the crude that you mentioned, west Texas; particularly rising in price has been even more dramatic for the one that the rest of the world looks at, great crude which is $115, $117 a barrel. There was a report from New Merrill Securities that suggested if there were greater risks it could go to $250 a barrel.  
     VELSHI:  Oh! 
     QUEST:  And this report, this is fascinating.  
     VELSHI:  Are you sure you're just not fear mongering now?  
     QUEST:  Hey, hey, hey, you watch and wait.  This is a report from HSBC which I've just read today which points out every time, or pretty much, the price of oil has doubled in the United States, a recession has followed.  
     VELSHI:  Yes.  We don't want that.  OK.  Richard hold on a second.  
     Stephen Leeb is author of "Game Over." I don't know have you haven't read it Richard, if you haven't you should.  It is a great book.  
     Stephen, the last year at this time the average price for a gallon of gasoline, which mistakenly is where most people think they feel oil, we actually feel it in far more places than gasoline, the average price for a gallon of gasoline was $2.69 this week a year ago. Now it's up to $3.29 with all sorts of dire predictions of how high it will go.  
     At what point do we start to see real political and economic fallout as a result of rising oil and gas prices?  
     STEPHEN LEEB, AUTHOR, "GAME OVER": I would say around $4 would be the magic number for gasoline Ali.  Richard makes a very good point about the 100 percent increase; it's really 80 to 100 percent.  Every time with the exception of 87, and that is certainly an exception that stands out, when you saw oil double, you did have real economic damage, including the tech bubble, including the housing bubble.  And in '87, the exception that kind of proves the rule, you had a market crash on the heels of about an 80 percent increase in oil.  
     So Richard is, I mean that's a good number to keep your eye on. And it tends to equate over the next three to six months with about the old highs in oil.  In other words, right now oil under $100 I don't think is a major economic event.  I don't think the market's even responding to it.  But if you saw oil around $130, $140, $150 --      VELSHI:  And trending that way.  
     LEEB:  I would get very, very cautious.  I mean, very cautious.  
     VELSHI:  If I had hair I would pull it out, Christine, with the number of times people tell me the thing that matters is the price of gasoline.  Even in America which consumes 10 percent of the world's oil every day just to drive, it is simply not the only place, and possibly not even the most important place that it hits us.  
     ROMANS:  And Richard pulled out the HSBC report, I'll pull out another one from a guy named Bernard Bermole, who said that he has been talking to executives in the country who say they may be putting hiring plans on hold Ali while they try to assess what kind of impact the oil situation will have for their business because it means higher shipping costs, it means higher input cost, it's more expensive to run the factory in general, it's more expensive to buy products, packaging and everything.  So that's something that it could mean trouble for the economy if you still continue to see oil prices rise.  
     VELSHI:  Stephen, as you like to remind us, there is something good about oil over $100 or $150 a barrel, because it stimulates other investments in other types of oil.  When oil goes back down and gas goes back down we stop thinking about alternative energy and hybrid energies, solar and wind and things like that.  
     LEEB:  Yes.  Unfortunately here we have oil flying up again for the nth time, I don't know how many times we've seen this, and yet people are suddenly talking about this, but we're also shutting down the government.  I mean this is not a calculus that is really, you know, making me happy at night when I go to bed.  I mean, yes, we really have to wake up.  And sometimes it does work.  One place where it is working incidentally, Ali, is in the non conventional oil sources.  The oil shale's out in the Dakotas and also where you're from, in Canada.  
     VELSHI:  Right.  
     LEEB:  Those are all critical places right now.  That's where all the marginal increases in oil production are coming from.  
