
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired July 15, 2011 - 22:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Good evening, everyone.
We begin tonight "Keeping Them Honest" with the husband of presidential candidate Michele Bachmann speaking out about the counseling business they co-own, breaking his silence after mounting attention and allegations that the clinic engages in so-called reparative therapy.
The Bachmanns own two clinics offering Christian-based marriage counseling and a host of services including reparative therapy which is based on the theory that gay people can be turned into heterosexuals through a combination of prayer and willpower.
Nearly all mainstream medical and psychological associations say there's no evidence that it works and there's plenty of evidence in fact that it can be hurtful and harmful.  For days now, both Congresswoman Bachmann and her husband have refused to answer questions about it.  But in today's the Bachmanns' hometown paper, "The Minneapolis Star Tribune," Mr. Bachmann defends the clinics, the paper reporting he did not deny that he and other counselors have attempted to help gay patients become heterosexuals, but he said it's not a special interest of the business and only occurred at clients' request.
"Will I address it?" he was quoted as saying he told the paper. "Certainly we will talk about it," adding -- quote -- "Is it a remedy form that I typically would use?  It is at the client's discretion."
In a newspaper interview with "Minneapolis City Pages" five years ago, Mr. Bachmann flat out denied his practice specialized in reparative statement.  Back then according to the paper responding to such allegations, Mr. Bachmann told "City Pages" -- quote -- "That's a false statement."
The most he would say about it back then was -- quote -- "If someone is interested in talking to us about their homosexuality we're open to talking about that.  But if someone comes in a homosexual and they want to stay homosexual I don't have a problem with that."
Mr. Bachmann says reparative therapy is not a focus at Bachmann and Associates.  But according to an undercover video made by a gay advocacy group called Truth Wins Out, in the lobby of one of Bachmann's clinics they offer this book written by a woman named Janet Boynes, who says she's an ex-lesbian and claims to have cured herself of her same-sex orientation. Behind it is a placard written by Marcus Bachmann himself personally recommending the book saying -- quote -- "She speaks to the heart of the matter and gives practical insights of truth to set people free."
And here's one of several hidden camera video conversations a man posing as a client for Truth Wins Out had with one of the clinic counselors.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  What would you suggest to me like a treatment plan type of thing, yes?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You can definitely pray.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  A significant number can actually leave homosexuality completely and become heterosexual?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Oh, yes, yes, definitely, definitely.  Oh, I believe all about that.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And it's happened before.  It really has.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  Well, a counselor at Bachmann and Associates suggesting he pray the gay away, suggesting it's worked before.
We interviewed a man named Andrew Ramirez also who says he encountered similar suggestions back in 2004 as a client at the clinic.  He spoke recently about it with CNN's Jim Acosta.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
ANDREW RAMIREZ, FORMER PATIENT:  It was therapy that would help me change from being homosexual to straight.
JIM ACOSTA, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  That's how he described it?
RAMIREZ:  Yes.
RAMIREZ:  Yes.
ACOSTA:  He basically said, if you do this, what?  You wouldn't be gay anymore?
RAMIREZ:  If I did this and worked his therapy program, God could perform a miracle and I could no longer be gay.
ACOSTA (voice-over):  Ramirez says he was assigned a therapy program consisting of prayer and reading Bible passages.  He also says he was told he would be mentored by an ex-lesbian minister.  And if none of that worked, Ramirez says the counselor had another idea.
(on camera):  He suggested to you what?
RAMIREZ:  Not acting out on my same-sex attractions and living a life of celibacy.
ACOSTA:  That was an alternative to being gay?
RAMIREZ:  Right.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
COOPER:  Well, that was in 2004.  Now, in 2006 Mr. Bachmann denied his practice specialized in such therapy.  Today he says it's only done at the client's request.  Congresswoman Bachmann continues to remain silent on the issues of the clinics which she co-owns, but over the years she's had plenty to say about her opposition to and dislike of homosexuality.
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
REP. MICHELE BACHMANN (R-MN), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  This is an earthquake issue.  This will change our state forever, because the immediate consequence if gay marriage goes through is that K-12 little children will be forced to learn that homosexuality is normal and natural and that perhaps they should try it.
If you're involved in the gay and lesbian lifestyle, it's bondage.  It is personal bondage, personal despair and personal enslavement.  This is not funny.  It's a very sad life.  It's part of Satan, I think, to say "This is gay."  It's anything but gay.  It's profoundly sad to recognize that almost all, if not all, individuals who have gone into the lifestyle have been abused at one time in their life, either by a male or by a female.
(END AUDIO CLIP)
COOPER:  She didn't provide any evidence of that, Michele Bachmann over the years.
Marcus Bachmann has also weighed in on a Christian radio show and that's caused some controversy.  His words stirred up a storm because they suggested he was likening gay teenagers to barbarians.  But he now tells "The Star Tribune" his remarks have been taken out of context.  And in fact he says that the recording was actually doctored.
"Keeping Them Honest," the recording shows no technical signs of editing and a host of the radio program agrees.  Here's the clip as it ran.
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
MARCUS BACHMANN, HUSBAND OF MICHELE BACHMANN:  There's that curiosity. But again, we -- like, it is as if we have to understand, barbarians need to be educated.  They need to be disciplined, and just someone feels it or thinks it doesn't mean that we're supposed to go down that road. (END AUDIO CLIP)
COOPER:  Now, Mr. Bachmann is saying now he was comparing kids to barbarians.  The radio host agrees.  Here's a fuller version of the clip.  And you can decide for yourself.
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Welcome back to point of view.  Dr. Marcus Bachmann is my guest.  And the time is going way too fast.  I have so many questions for you, Dr. Bachmann.
And this one, since you also pay attention to the culture wars, this has been swirling around lately because of this particular letter that came  down from the American College of Pediatricians cautioning schools to stop promoting homosexual identity to children.  And yesterday "The Wall Street Journal" came out with an article, what do you say when your teenager says she's gay?
What do you say to Christian parents who come up with this?
M. BACHMANN:  Well, I think you clearly say what is the understanding of God's word on homosexuality.
And I think that this is no mystery that a child or pre-adolescent, particularly adolescents, will question and wonder about sexuality. That's nothing new under the sun since the beginning of time.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yes.
M. BACHMANN:  But I don't think we should take that, because we wonder, or we think, or we question, does that takes us down the road of homosexuality?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Could you add the word experiment to that?
M. BACHMANN:  Certainly.  There is that -- there's that curiosity. But again, we -- like, it is as if we have to understand, barbarians need to be educated.  They need to be disciplined, and just someone feels it or thinks it doesn't mean that we're supposed to go down that road.
(END AUDIO CLIP)
COOPER:  Well, you can decide for yourself what Mr. Bachmann meant by that statement.
Now, Jim Acosta did the initial story on the reporting.  He hasn't stopped yet.  He joins us now.
Jim, Marcus Bachmann said in the interview today with "The Minneapolis Star Tribune" that converting gay patients is not a special interest of his clinic, it would only be attempted at the client's request. Now, on that Truth Wins Out video, it does seem like the guy who made the undercover tape said to the counselor he was interested in changing his orientation, which got the conversation going. The family of the young man who you spoke to who went in 2004, what did he say about that?
ACOSTA:  Well, Anderson, that young man we interviewed for our story earlier this week, Andrew Ramirez, said he and his mother turned to Bachmann and Associates for counseling after being referred to the clinic by a friend.
Ramirez says they were told Bachmann was a place to turn for teenagers who wanted to change from gay to straight.  And you mentioned that photo taken by a gay rights activist who went into the Bachmann clinic undercover.  It is a picture of that book you said written by a self- described ex-lesbian named Janet Boynes.
In her book, Boynes claims she was able to use her faith to change her sexual orientation to straight.  And above that book is an endorsement from Marcus Bachmann.  Not to mention that interview you just played from the radio, the host asked Dr. Bachmann what parents should do if their teenagers believe they're gay.
COOPER:  And, Jim, Bachmann also didn't deny that this kind of therapy is going on at his clinic, but it's not in any way accepted therapy by any mainstream medical organization or psychological organization.
ACOSTA:  That's right.  Anderson, a therapy aimed at changing a person's sexual orientation is frowned upon by mental health experts.
Bachmann says he's not seeking clients who want this kind of therapy, but the guidelines from the American Psychological Association are pretty clear as to what counselors should do when a patient with this issue comes for help.
Here's a statement from that group that's pretty clear.  It says -- quote -- "There is insufficient evidence to support the use of psychological interventions to change sexual orientation."  And the group, Anderson, says that that kind of therapy, reparative therapy, can do harm to patients.
COOPER:  And Michele Bachmann is still kind of remaining silent on this whole thing, right?
ACOSTA:  That's right.  The campaign is not saying much.  A spokesperson sent out a statement to me this evening saying -- quote -- "Mr. Bachmann has spoken.  The Bachmann for president campaign is focused on the issues that people are concerned about, jobs, the economy," and no more on the subject for now, Anderson.
I tried to ask Michele Bachmann about this at a press conference on Wednesday, and there was no response.
COOPER:  Jim Acosta, appreciate the reporting.  Thanks.
There's of course a political dimension to the story.  Congresswoman Bachmann is riding high in the polls especially in Iowa where Christian conservatives frequently dominate Republican caucuses. I talked about this impact the story may have or probably won't have there and nationwide with Democratic strategist Paul Begala and Ari Fleischer, former press secretary in the George W. Bush administration.  Currently, he's on Twitter @AriFleischer.  We spoke earlier.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
COOPER:  Paul, let me start with you.
Do you believe Mr. Bachmann's explanation that this isn't the focus of his clinic though he doesn't deny that he and his counselors would try reparative therapy and have tried it?  Do you buy that, his explanation?  Because in the investigation that was done by that group with the hidden camera, I mean, in his lobby they are selling a book by somebody who claims to be ex-gay talking about getting out of being gay.
PAUL BEGALA, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST:  Well, his position seems to be, I will practice a crackpot theory if people ask me to practice a crackpot theory.  What if somebody comes in and says, will you try Santeria or voodoo or astrology or any number of other crackpot theories?  Would he adopt them?
And that's what this is.  The notion that -- first of all, they call it reparative, like your sexual identity is like a muffler or something.  You have got to take it in the shop and repair it.  It's a crackpot theory and it's bigotry.
Now, having said that, I do think Democrats in the left have to be careful here, because he's not the candidate.  I never like going after people's spouses.  I really don't.  Now, she owns a piece of the clinic.  It's legitimate.  I'm more interested in that piece of it, asking Mrs. Bachmann, the congresswoman, the candidate, about this, because I don't think that Michelle Obama or Cindy McCain for that matter or Teresa Heinz Kerry -- there's a long history lately of spouses being mistreated in these campaigns.
I don't want Marcus Bachmann to be mistreated but I want Michele Bachmann to tell us does she believe it this crackpot, bigoted theory.
COOPER:  Ari, what do you think about that?  Because on this program, we did this a couple of days ago, this as a story, mainly because Michele Bachmann was refusing to answer questions about it when asked point blank and because seemingly Mr. Bachmann's statements and she's a co-owner and his statements and Mr. Bachmann's statements didn't seem to be squaring up with what his former patients were telling us.
ARI FLEISCHER, FORMER GEORGE W. BUSH WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Look, Anderson, if somebody came up to me and said they were gay and they wanted to have advice on how not to be gay, I would say, why on earth would you ask for that?  You should be proud of who you are. End of story.
But if somebody goes to a Christian counseling clinic and says, I need help, I don't want to be gay, I want to be something else, that really is between the person who goes to that clinic, a Christian clinic, and whoever the practitioners are on the other end, in this case a Christian adviser.
So I think you do have to be careful here.  It's almost as if somebody of a faith goes to their priest and asks for advice about their own practices.  For those of us who aren't -- belong to that, it's a little hard to weigh in.  And I think when it comes to spouses especially, it's not the candidate.  And they don't and should not get treated by the same rules that apply to candidates.
BEGALA:  But Mrs. Bachmann should answer the question.  Do you believe in this crackpot, bigoted theory that there's somehow something to be repaired if you're gay?  I can't even say it without laughing because it's such a crackpot theory.
Congresswoman Bachmann apparently participates in the profits of this clinic.  And in fact the clinic apparently gets state and federal assistance, which is kind of interesting for an anti-government conservative.  She should have to answer whether she supports that kind of bigotry.
FLEISCHER:  Well, first of all, it gets Medicaid.  And so when Paul makes that case, I guess what he's saying is only Democrats should be able to receive Medicaid funds, no Republicans, which is nonsense.
But secondly, I think when it comes to these very sensitive social issues, we have to be careful before we put ourselves in other people's shoes.  I don't think it's out of the norm for somebody to say, I want to change who I am.  And if they do, I told you what my answer would be.  I would say, you don't need to.  Why should you?
But if somebody wanted to and that's what the case here was, who among us has the right to say to them, if that's what you really want, you're not eligible to have it from anybody in any way if that's what you want.  I don't think any of us have metaphysical certainty about these issues.
What we should have is respect.  And I think you have to leave this on the side, leave it alone, especially when there are so many other issues dealing with the jobs and the deficit.  And that's what this election is about.
BEGALA:  But then you're no longer practicing therapy.  You're no longer practicing psychological counseling.  You may be practicing a religion.  You may be practicing some sort of prejudice.  You may be practicing something, but you should not be getting Medicaid funding to practice health care, mental health care in this case, if what you're doing is pursuing this crackpot theory.
(CROSSTALK)
FLEISCHER:  It's a Christian counseling program.
And, Paul, what you would be saying is no counseling program of any religious nature should be able to receive federal funds.
BEGALA:  They shouldn't...
FLEISCHER:  Different issue, but if that's the case you want to make, that's a big different case to make.  But this was a Christian facility.  And they took Medicaid patients, not necessarily for this procedure or treatment or whatever you call it.
(CROSSTALK)
COOPER:  Right.  There's no evidence they were using Medicaid payments for reparative therapy.
BEGALA:  She should be asked about this theory.  She's a candidate for president.  One out of 10 Americans is gay.  She should be asked if she wants to lead a country where at least 10 percent of us are gay or lesbian, does she believe in this crackpot, bigoted theory that somehow there's something to be repaired in our brothers and sisters and sons and daughters who happen to be born gay?
(END VIDEOTAPE)
