
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired August 25, 2011 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>ANDERSON COOPER, HOST, ANDERSON COOPER 360:  Candy, thanks very much.
Breaking news on the hurricane, North Carolina will be next when warnings went out this afternoon.  And after that, more than 50 million people, the entire northeast seaboard, right in the storm's projected path.  Just moments ago, the national hurricane center issued a new bulletin.  Chad Myers joins us with the latest.
Chad, what do we know?  What does the new bulletin say?
CHAD MYERS, AMS METEOROLOGIST:  The pressure is going down, Anderson. And that's bad, the lower the pressure, the higher the wind speed. Now, there are hurricane hunter aircraft in there right now, it did not find any increased wind speed yet.  So, sometimes the pressure goes down and then the winds build.  But there's the eye right there from the Miami radar site.  So it's not all that far away.
We've had outer bands coming onshore in Florida for most of the day. There's another outer band offshore right now, if you're standing on the beach you may be able to see the lightning in the distance.  I hope you're not on the beach at this point, though, because the waves are getting much larger.  You get the 115-mile-per-hour winds out there.  The waves are being generated and there's going to be a lot of rip currents going out into the ocean in the next couple of days, all the way into Cape Hatteras, even into ocean city, Maryland.
So, let's break it down for you right now.  So, 120-mile-per-hour storm tomorrow afternoon south of the Cape, by tomorrow, about Saturday, 2:00, you get to the category 2, 110-mile-per-hour storm somewhere in North Carolina.  Now, there's still a chance, a slight chance, Anderson, that it's offshore.  But that's probably less than 30 percent.  The better chance is that it's very close to Morehead City, Atlantic beach, into North Carolina.
And then the bad part is that isn't even really land.  There's an ocean, there's an island, barrier islands, but there's the sounds in there, the panicle sound.  That's just all water.  So this storm doesn't slow down at all.  It doesn't lose intensity because it's over land.  It glides right along the Delmarva.  It goes right on up the jersey shore and right into, very, very close to the Hudson River. The New York harbor, with water and waves lapping into the harbor especially water and waves and surge on long island and even probably all the way over from providence into Rhode Island itself.  This will be a storm that we have never seen.  Hurricane Bob in 1991, but it was farther to the east.  In our lifetime we have not seen a storm just drive right up the Hudson River and take that water with it, and maybe even floods parts of Manhattan.
COOPER:  Any sense of how this compares to, I mean on long island in New York, there was the hurricane in '38 that killed, I think a couple hundred people out around west Hampton, all around that stretch of southern long island.  Do we now have this to compare?  I guess it's too early to tell.
MYERS:  It's a little too early.  Maybe the winds aren't going to be as big as that storm.  Look at the map behind me here, where there's purple all the way from New England to North Carolina.  That's eight inches of rain or more everywhere.  The inland flooding could be tremendous with this.  Because although the storm is moving, and it's moving rapidly, the rain will be so intense at times, that the flooding will just occur.  Hurricane models right over North Carolina. Hurricane models right over the northeast.  There's very little chance that this misses the U.S. at this point, Anderson.
COOPER:  And chances that it, I mean, that it misses the whole New York region.  Because obviously that's a heavily populated area, a lot of folks are concerned about that.  I mean, how likely is it that how many tracks show it hitting New York?
MYERS:  I would say eight out of 20.  That's a pretty big number.  And the rest of them are either east of or west of the city.  The best case for New York City would be if the storm would be somewhere out there, obviously missing everything.  But if the storm would be just to the east of New York, the winds in the harbor would blow offshore, and not surge Manhattan.  Not push all that water into Manhattan and long island and into Williamsburg.  And for the - that way into the meadowlands, how swampy that is.  The water would go straight up.
The other best secret would be to go over here through the Poconos. But that would cause more flooding in the Poconos, and it would be dying here because it's over land, that's a possibility.  If it goes over the Delaware water gap and up into the Poconos, it would cause a lot of flooding and a lot of downed trees there, even in the Adirondacks.  But the city would be saved at that point in time.
COOPER:  Chad, appreciate it.  Thanks very much.  We'll check back with you throughout this hour.  And obviously into the night to give you another idea of how big Irene is.  This is what it looks like from the international space station.  One crew member saying it looks very scary to him, even from up there.  Mandatory evacuations under way along parts of North Carolina's outer banks, people all the way up the coast asked to leave or get ready.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The barrier island right now, with my wife and my four kids.  We won't be there tonight. MAYOR MIKE BLOOMBERG, NEW YORK:  I want to remind you that this kind of forecast is very imprecise, and we're talking about something that is a long time away in meteorological terms.  So, what we have to do is assume the worst, prepare for that, and hope for the best.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  Obviously, New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg ordering the evacuation of senior centers, nursing homes, hospitals in low-lying areas.  He held off on issuing any general orders to everyone in those areas but asked people in those places to consider leaving voluntarily tomorrow to try to cut down on traffic.
Now, they're getting ready in Washington, as well.  Troops here filling sand bags at a military base, along the Potomac River just across from the national airport.  Moments ago, we got the word that the dedication of the New Martin Luther King Memorial scheduled for Sunday in Washington that has been postponed.  The Navy is sending 27 warships based in Norfolk, Virginia, out into an open ocean where they will be safer.
Three subs also put to sea, other surface vessels moving inland for safety.  And just moments ago, we got the announcement of this.  Take a look at this.
This is the capital Nassau looks pretty rough Nassau on the Bahamas outlying areas really got hammered.  Saint Salvador Cape and the long island reports taking direct hit.  No deaths so far there.  But serious damage and major flooding as well.
Joining us now is Max Mayfield, former director of the national hurricane center.  Max, you say one of your greatest nightmares is having a hurricane go up the northeast coast.  Why?
MAX MAYFIELD, FMR. DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL HURRICANE CENTER:  Well, just because the population.  And, you know, I think people up through the Carolinas, they've had enough experience with hurricanes, they know how to respond.  But get too far north of there and a lot of people just understandably don't have the experience with hurricanes. So that's a big, big concern.
And as Chad mentioned, this is a large hurricane.  And you really don't want to focus on that little skinny line because being a hurricane is not a point it's a very large circulation in this case. And even if the core weakens a little bit as it moves over Eastern North Carolina and over the colder water up north that large circulation is not going to disappear.  So they're going to be dealing with all the hazards, storm surge, there's large waves on top of that surge, the wind and rainfall.
This particular hurricane is going to have a large rain field well out in advance of it.  So, that's not a good thing to have a lot of rain, and have the winds come in that will knock over trees and power lines. If you remember hurricane Isabel, there were six million people who lost power in Isabel.  Most of that occurred in areas outside of hurricane-force wind. COOPER:  Hurricane Bob, I think in '91, was the last major hurricane to hit the northeast.  So the comparisons with Irene I guess make sense.  How similar are they?
MAYFIELD:  Well, this is a lot larger than Bob.  I remember forecasting bob when I was at the hurricane center.  That just clipped the eastern tip of long island.  But it was a much, much smaller hurricane.  This is going to be different.  And I would say that, you don't even have to have a hurricane up there in the long island area, New York City area, and Cape Cod area.  This is such a large system, with the waves and the storm surge it's going to do a lot of damage.
So people really need to heed the advice of the local officials.  The weather service offices are talking to those local emergency managers, and people need to heed their advice when they're told to do something.
COOPER:  Yes.  I was talking to someone on the subway today.  A lot of New Yorkers I don't think are ready, or even begun to kind to realize what this could mean, or how bad it could get.  I don't want to cause fear unnecessarily.  When it comes to the path of the storm, though, I suppose worst case scenario would be a direct hit on New York.
MAYFIELD:  Well, that would be true.  In 1893, there was a category one hurricane that I think in Coney Island ship pushed inland about a half mile.  Central park had tremendous damage.  They've had hurricanes but a long, long time ago.  So, and this one is going to be different.  Not like the Long Island express of 1938.  That hurricane was moving very rapidly, and maintained the core of that hurricane. This is probably not going to do that.  This is moving slower.  So the maximum winds may weaken, in that inner core, but the large circulation is going to remain intact, and it will do a lot of damage. And I would expect a lot of power outages.  Let's hope we don't have loss of life.
COOPER:  Yes.  Let's hope not.  Hurricane of '38, it was just deadly, killed a couple of hundred people out on Long Island.
Max Mayfield, appreciate you joining us.  Thanks very much.
More on Irene all night as new updates will come in.
Let us know what you think.  We are on face book.  Follow me on twitter @andersoncooper.  I'll try to be tweeting some tonight.
Up next, the very latest on the hunt for Moammar Gadhafi.  Never- before-seen video, this is some of here from the battle to take Gadhafi's compound.  Nic Robertson got the latest also on the manhunt going on now.  We will talk to John Burns, the New York Times with us in just a few moments.
Also tonight, in exclusive interview with one of the journalists held captive by Gadhafi's henchmen.  We are going to talk with the CNN producer who has been credited for persuading the captors to let everyone go.  She's an Arab speaker.  She talked to them for days and days, and finally they relented.  She'll tell us how she did it. First let's check in with Isha Sesay.  Isha.
ISHA SESAY, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Anderson, as what Mayfield said, it's a serious possibility, not just a nightmare scenario anymore, tunnels flooded, airports under water, damage, even death, the frightening reality of a hurricane hitting New York City.  We'll talk to Head of Disaster Team Steven Flynn about what could happen, and what people can do to prepare when 360 continues.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ARWA DAMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Right behind you can see the thick plume of dark smoke.  That is as a result of the ongoing incoming artillery.  This location has been pounded by shelves, by grand rackets, there had heavy machine gunfire.  Assaults still coming from multiple directions, that a plane on fire at the tarmac.
But then over here, we have two golf carts that the rebels say they also got off of Gadhafi's farm.  They've been coming through, trying them out.  Many of them say they remember Gadhafi coming out of a golf cart similar to this one carrying an umbrella, giving one of his infamous speeches.
What they have been saying is that being on the farm, seeing the life of luxury that their leader led at the expense of the people for more than four decades is making them all that more determined to hunt down his loyalists but also more importantly to hunt him down as well.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  That hunt is intensifying.  We'll, of course, to bring you hurricane updates as they come in.  But the other breaking news tonight is Libya, in the search for Gadhafi.  That all important search according to the opposition that is still going on.  Opposition forces now by house to house in Tripoli, kicking down doors looking for the fugitive dictator.
At one point today, there were reports that fighters had him cornered. That of course, turned out not to be the case.  He did surface though, in another audiotape, his voice broadcast in tripoli today.  Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MOAMMAR GADHAFI, PRESIDENT OF LIBYA (through translator):  Do not leave tripoli for the rats.  Do not leave them.  Fight them.  Destroy them.  You are the overwhelming majority.  You have marched in millions.  March with the same millions.  But fight this time.  Fill the streets and the fields.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  Heavy fighting in there is still opposition, fighters mopping up pockets of resistance throughout Tripoli.  Listen.
(VIDEO CLIP PLAYING)
Loyalists shelling continue at the airport destroying a wide-body airliner overnight.  Opposition fighters said they still have to hold back returning fire because the shelling is coming from heavily populated neighborhoods.  Shortly before air time, we got access to truly remarkable video, from the Arabian News channel, a view of the battle for Gadhafi's compound.  Only one camera was there to record it, some of the most intense combat video that we've seen out of this conflict.  Here is how it looked and sounded to opposition fighters at the dictator's door.
(VIDEO CLIP PLAYING)
COOPER:  The intensity of the fighting, taking over the Gadhafi compound.  It is being said that there are still pockets of fighting in Tripoli and else where in Libya, shelling in towns west of the capital.  "The New York Times" reporting clashes in Zuwarah resistance also in the east in Gadhafi's hometown Site and another loyalists strong hold to the South Sabah.  The focus is on one city, Tripoli, and one man with a price on his head, Gadhafi.
Nic Robertson is in Tripoli with more on the manhunt, he joins us now. Nic, you spent most of the day with opposition fighters searching for Gadhafi.  What did they find?  And how organized a search is it?
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  It seems to be a somewhat chaotic search.  It seems to be rumor driven.  And sometimes one rumor feeds into another rumor.  The first rumor that we heard was being taken very seriously by rebel commanders.  They sent additional troops.  We talked to the commander.  They thought Gadhafi was in an apartment building close to his old palace compound.  We went there.  We couldn't find evidence of the buildup, of the fire fight.
Then we were told that it was actually centered in another neighborhood, a neighborhood that's got a lot of Gadhafi loyalists. We went there.  And we found fighters who said it wasn't Gadhafi, and his family in an apartment complex.  It was another family who was supporting him.
And then they went into that building and there was nobody there.  So it's just rumor on rumor that the rebels are chasing at the moment. And they're chasing ghosts.  They're coming up with nothing right now, Anderson.
COOPER:  So they don't really have solid information about his whereabouts at this point, but to the members of the opposition that you've talked to, how important is it that they capture Gadhafi?  Why do they think it's so important?
ROBERTSON:  They think it's, number one, it's psychologically important, because that will just be very clear to everyone, even those that still support him, and there are some tribes here whose loyalty to Gadhafi hasn't been tested in the south of the country, in the west of the country.  People are holding out still loyal to him. So, they think that that will show these tribes that the end has come. And they've got to work with a new national transitional council.  So that's one reason why it's important.  Emotionally it will be very important.  It will be absolutely symbolic for them that they have a real victory.  As long as there are people fighting them on the streets, the battle's not over.  And they dearly want to get this over and done with.  They just moved the national transitional council leaders here to tripoli, to try to begin to manage and rebuild the country.  But they're still fighting the battles on the streets, Anderson.
COOPER:  Nic, stay with us.  I want to also bring in John burns of "The New York Times," John who has done a lot of reporting over the years in Libya.  Recently, he was kicked out of Libya for some of his reporting there by the Gadhafi regime.
John, Colonel Gadhafi just released this tape that we just played.  We talked about him last night as being delusional.  He seems if in fact that was his voice, he seemed delusional in this tape.  I mean, he's saying do not leave tripoli for the rats.  He talks about a wave of people coming to rise up.  It doesn't sound like he's really in touch with the reality of what's going on, or he's just making stuff up.
JOHN BURNS, LONDON BUREAU CHIEF, THE NEW YORK TIMES:  f course, that's been true of Gadhafi's statements for really quite a long time.  A lot of them have just been gobbledygook.  And yet this goes along and I don't know if psychiatrists that could have a field day with this with the kind of deadly cunning.  There's an edge of deadly rationality to this.  It doesn't bode well.
And we saw those television images today, not only of the Subterranean Complex, but the Bab al-Azaziya compound in central Baghdad, he still in out there.  Journalists are down there, television crews were down there today.  But just as interesting to me was, another report of a house in a Baghdad suburb on a street, probably known as Shadow Street, where completely normal looking house from the outside. Inside was palatial with a deep 40-foot bunker.  And you could see how many times that could be replicated.  There might be probably, probably are many places like that in areas of Tripoli which are favorable to Saddam, I beg your pardon, for Gadhafi, in his hometown, somewhere in the south.  This could be tracked.
COOPER:  In terms of the mood amongst opposition forces, how is the morale?  And again, I'm sort of really interested in the organization of this.  Is there a central commander who is controlling the opposition's movements?  Or is it just small groups of fighters who have banded together as we saw early on in this, kind of doing whatever they can?
ROBERTSON:  You're asking me, Anderson?
COOPER:  I'm sorry, no, Nic.  Go ahead, Nic.
COOPER:  There is a sort of central command.  Whichever area you go through, you will find a command headquarters, and you'll find somebody who's smart, who's knowledgeable who's respected by the rebel fighters around him.  But he will direct them to do things, the commander we saw today directed additional troops, additional rebel fighters out to try and encircle this apartment building.
But that's where the control, effective control of the forces ends, when he sends them out.  They don't have real, sort of good means of communications.  We saw them try to talk to each other by mobile phone.  The system wasn't working properly.  They couldn't always get through.  So that's an issue.
And out on the street level, the fighters are very jubilant.  They're very youthful.  They are very exuberant.  They really feel that they achieved something.  You sense their euphoria.  But it doesn't make them an effective, coordinated force.  You literally get people, groups of fighters rushing around in pickup trucks with large machine guns on the back, and from where I stand, it looks very chaotic, and seeing the limited communications, I sense that it really is somewhat chaotic, Anderson.
COOPER:  John, something I found so surreal and bizarre and oddly fascinating out of this today was this photo book that they found dedicated to Condoleezza rice in Gadhafi's compound.  I mean, page after page of Condoleezza rice photos.  It is - You can't make this up.
BURNS:  You can't.  And you know so much of this is relevant to what we saw in Baghdad in April of 2003.  A regime that presented itself as populist and socialist, that was not only utterly brutal, but utterly corrupt, living in extraordinary luxury.  I'm not sure I would use the word pornography that was used once or twice today to refer to stacks of "playboy" magazines.  But certainly, living luxurious lives and with odd things like that.  What to make of that, it would be interesting to see what Condoleezza rice.
COOPER:  I know.  That's my first thought, to.  Like wow!  Who's going to get a statement from her and like, how are you going to ask her for a statement about that.  It's so bizarre.
BURNS:  Actually, what did come to my mind looking at that was that I think we have to acknowledge that there's a good deal of complicity among the western powers in all of these.  We were, a long time of course Gadhafi was the number one bad boy.  Certainly was for long period before Saddam went into Kuwait and became office.  But then we wanted to get his nuclear weapons, we befriended him.  Tony Blair went there.  Condi rice went there, embraced him.  The British even returned (Ali abribasa) who was the only man convicted in the pan am 103 shoot down.  So, it wouldn't be surprising if some of those people who have now liberated Libya, as they see it on the ground, with NATO air support, unfortunately they are, I know, very grateful, may well begin to ask questions later on about our complicity with the Gadhafi regime.  Which of course had a great deal to do with - in fact, having to do with weapons of mass destruction, but that he had oil.
COOPER:  John burns, always good to have you on, Nic Robertson, as well.  Nic, be careful.
Up next, you are going to meet the CNN producer who helped negotiate the release of 36 journalists, including her self from the Tripoli hotel, for days they were held there by armed Gadhafi loyalists, very emotional ordeal.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Oh, my God.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  She's not talking on camera.  She's not doing it.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It's the CNN camera.  Hi.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  We'll talk to her in just a moment.  We will have also more on hurricane Irene, threatening to be the biggest storm to hit the northeast in decades.
We will check in again with Chad Myers in just a moment.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We want them to know that Gadhafi through the past 40 years, he made the Libyans look like we were terrorists.  We were like bombing, you know like him, but he made us look like we're not educated, like we're like this third world country.  He made us look bad.  We want him to know we're well educated.  We are like you, and just like all the Americans, you know for the whole world.  You know we're just people who live our life.  We are a peaceful people. We just want to live our lives, be free.  Just live like anyone else.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  That's two sisters in tripoli, 18 years old and 23 years old. They lived their entire lives under Gadhafi's rule.  They now feel free for the first time to show their faces, speak out.  They even have a message to Gadhafi.
Journalists who are in Libya to tell those kinds of stories, the stories about the Libyan people, now become the stories themselves. But sometimes they don't have a choice.  Like the 36 journalists who were trapped by gun willed in Gadhafi's loyalists inside that Tripoli hotel.  They were held hostage for five days, at times force to lye face-down on the floor for 36 hours at a stretch.
Tonight, they are free.  Thanks in no small part to a CNN producer who helped negotiate their release.  We're going to hear from her in just a moment and you're going to hear from the two young women in Tripoli as well tonight.
But first, some of the dramatic sights and sounds inside the Rixos Hotel where CNN's Matthew Chance and dozens of other journalists were held captive.  Using a flip cam, Matthew documented what was happening in that hotel during those five days.  Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  OK, so we're at the fire exit of the hotel.  They just stopped us.  We'll show you what's going on outside of the gates of the hotel.  I don't know if you'll be able to see much, because it's dark.  You can hear the heavy gun shells being fired.  John, what's the situation over there?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Just returning fire, small arms.
CHANCE:  OK, well, in the darkness.  Outside our hotel room, you can see, it is not a place you want to be standing up.  It's pitch black out there.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  Some of Matthew Chance, CNN's producer Jomana Karadsheh was also trapped in the hotel.  Here's a look at her and Matthew talking about their chances for getting out.
CHANCE:  We're worried we're in a very, you know, precarious situation here right now.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Not to use the cliche these days, very fluid situation.  I don't personally believe this is over yet.
