
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired July 13, 2011 - 22:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Good evening, everyone.  
     We begin tonight with breaking news, high tension at the White House, and very, very high stakes.  Talks to diffuse the debt crisis ending tonight in frustration on both sides and conflicting accounts tonight from each side about what really happened in that room.  
     House Majority Leader Eric Cantor saying that when he proposed a short-term deal, something the president opposes, Mr. Obama got agitated and said he'd sat there long enough.  A number of sources say he then asked -- quote -- "Would Ronald Reagan be sitting here?  I have reached my limit.  This may bring down my presidency, but I will not yield on this."
     Congressman Cantor says Mr. Obama told him -- quote -- "Eric, don't call my bluff.  I'm going to the American people with this."
     Finally, Cantor says the president pushed back from the table and left.  Now, a Democratic source telling it very differently, saying the president challenged Mr. Cantor for what the source called -- quote -- "talking out of both sides of his mouth."
     All the same, they will be back at the table tomorrow.  The stakes though could not be higher.  Moody's today put America's credit rating on review, hinting at a possible downgrade.  And Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke today warned Congress that defaulting on the debt would be catastrophic, the Chamber of Commerce also sounding the alarm.
     Jessica Yellin is at the White House tonight with what her sources are telling her.  
     Jessica, what have you heard from these differing accounts?  
     JESSICA YELLIN, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Anderson, Democratic sources say that bottom line is that the president was schooling the crowd in the room when Eric Cantor changed his position. 
     All along Eric Cantor as you have said, the House majority leader, had endorsed doing a deal that did reduce the deficit and that had some of these various components we have talked about.  But when he supported the short-term deal, which as you have pointed out the president has made clear he opposes, the president sort of told the entire group that this is exactly what Americans think of as Washington at its worst, Washington catering to the base, catering to politics, putting their own political future ahead of doing important things and taking on the big issues, and that he called on the group to take on this challenge and then called the meeting to an end.  
     No matter how you read that, it's clearly an increase in tensions on day three of these debt negotiations, with no sign of real progress with the clock ticking.  And I do have it confirmed that this president really did say, with my presidency at stake, I will not yield on this issue.  
     COOPER:  You know, there have been some reports -- and I think "The Wall Street Journal" did an editorial about this -- suggesting that this has all been kind of part of President Obama's plan, that he's been very kind of calculating in the way he's gone about these talks, intimating -- letting the Republicans talk about spending cuts and then only later on really being aggressive and pressing for revenue raisers, for tax increases down the road.  
     How does the White House respond to that?  Is there any truth to that from the White House perspective?  
     YELLIN:  Well, look, if this were part of a plan he'd have a deal by now, because no president wants this kind of debt threat hanging over their head.  
     He cannot benefit from having any kind of default at this point in his presidency.  So you could accuse the White House of playing tactics instead of having a strategy.  You could accuse the president of going out and using this for his own political advantage to the extent he can.  But laying this entire scenario out as some sort of grand plan is nothing that anyone would do, I would argue, for their own political advantage.  
     The problem is at this point what we see is, instead of progress, each side sort of digging in and taking a step backward at the very point when they need to be making -- locking in deals and moving forward.  
     COOPER:  And no sign of that.  Jessica Yellin, appreciate the reporting tonight on a fast-moving story.  
     Joining us now is former McCain and Palin campaign adviser Nicolle Wallace.  She also served as director of communications for the Bush White House.  In addition, she's also a novelist, the author of "Eighteen Acres," which is an analyst book.  Senior political analyst David Gergen is with us as well, and on the phone Democratic strategist Paul Begala.  
     Paul, what do you make of what happened today in this meeting and signs for any kind of progress, potential for progress?  
     PAUL BEGALA, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST:  Well, for a guy we thought was no-drama Obama, sounds like a pretty dramatic meeting.  
     I do think the only way you can get to a deal is if both sides want to deal.  And the only way you get that is if the Republicans believe that president would walk away if they don't meet him halfway or at least part of the way.       It does seem to me untenable for one side to say, well, we will even put Social Security on the table, which apparently reportedly the president has done, and the other side says, well, we won't put a nickel of revenue even from corporate loopholes on the table.  
     It does seem like it's a pretty unfair negotiating strategy for the Republicans, and it looks like maybe it's blown up in their face.  
     COOPER:  David, David Gergen, your take on this and especially on this day where Moody's is talking about reviewing a potential downgrade of our credit rating.  
     DAVID GERGEN, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST:  Anderson, I think the fact that the meeting broke up in the way it did is extremely unfortunate, not only for trying to solve the debt ceiling, but trying to solve the underlying problem of the mounting debts, the debt crisis that we're approaching.  
     And I don't want to apportion blame here.  I don't agree with Paul's analysis, but I don't want to get into the blame sort of situation.  What it does seem to me is this, that the president and the leaders all have to come out of their corners and arrive at some sort of deal in the immediate future that averts a default on the national debt.  
     That's the single most important thing and whatever that deal is. The president says he does not want a short-term deal.  And I know personally that he feels very intensely about that.  But his own top economic adviser, Larry Summers, wrote today in "The Financial Times," he's got to get -- any deal is better than no deal.  We have to get past the default crisis and then we can deal.  Unfortunately we have to postpone this, but then we can deal with the underlying issues of the mounting debts.  
     COOPER:  Nicolle, you were in the Bush White House, where the debt ceiling was raised a number of times.  Now that you're in New York and you have got some distance on D.C., how do you see this?  
     NICOLLE WALLACE, FORMER BUSH WHITE HOUSE COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR: Well, I'm glad I write fiction now.  
     But, look, I don't know that we have ever seen a negotiation go from such highs, where just days ago they were talking about a historic deal that would have a generational benefit and impact, to bullying each other and cramming peas down each other's throat, pushing back from tables and digging in.  
     So I think this deteriorated much more dramatically and much more quickly than anything else.  And I think when you get out of Washington, I think it just -- it's a cumulative thing with the public.  The public is so beyond disgust with the leaders in Washington.  
     And I think even Republican voices like Sean Hannity understand and are arguing in favor of making sure that the country does not default on its debt.  But I think what Republicans feel like they have contributed, if you will, or what their part of the compromise was agreeing to let this country get deeper into debt.  
     COOPER:  But from a Republican perspective, Nicolle, where do you see the possibility for compromise?  Is compromise possible?  I mean, if Republicans are saying the line in the sand is absolutely no tax raising, how do you increase revenues?  
     WALLACE:  Well, I think Republicans are against raising taxes for some pretty good reasons.  One, we're not an undertaxed country.  Two, raising taxes doesn't actually get at the cause of our deficits.  
     Our deficits are in part as large as they are because we haven't had any growth in years now.  So I think Republicans will make the case, and it will play out if not in Washington, then in the presidential campaign in the next year, this debate about how to grow our way out of these deficits.  
     But, look, what's at issue at the moment is getting a deal done. And I think as unfortunately so often happens in Washington, something small, something temporary and something that both sides are unhappy about is probably what will ensue.  
     COOPER:  Paul, is a compromise possible?  
     BEGALA:  Well, it's essential.  It's absolutely necessary.  
     But you do have what I think the (INAUDIBLE) planners would call asymmetrical warfare.  There's nothing more central to being a Democrat than protecting entitlements like Social Security and Medicare.  This president has apparently put them on the table the. There's no bigger trump card he has as a Democrat to say, OK, I'm a Democratic president.  I'm going to...
     (CROSSTALK) 
     COOPER:  But, Paul, Republicans are saying that the president hasn't been...
     (CROSSTALK)
     BEGALA:  But the Republicans have to come with some taxes.  
     COOPER:  Paul, Republicans have been saying and saying in this meeting to the president that he hasn't been specific about what spending cuts he's talking about.  
     BEGALA:  But then -- I'm not in the room, but I think we know what Social Security is, we know what Medicare is, and we know what no is.  
     The Republicans' position is untenable.  We have both a spending problem and a revenue problem.  It's obvious.  Federal tax revenues now are only 15 percent of GDP.  Federal spending is 25 percent of GDP.  Both of those lines need to come to meet.  You can't do it with spending alone nor can you do it with taxes alone.  It's actually a very obvious deal.  It's just that one side won't give an inch.  And that's the Republicans.       COOPER:  David?  
     GERGEN:  Well, that's one way of looking at it.  
     I must say, look, there's some very strong ideological differences on this.  The Republicans are committed to lean government.  They do want a smaller government.  They want it much less than 25 percent.  They believe the Democrats are addicted to bigger government, and they believe a lot of what's being offered in these talks are gimmicks or are illusory in terms of budget cuts.  And that's why they're saying let's put the -- let's put -- Mr. President, put your budget out on the front of the public.  Let us see what you're proposing.  You have never really proposed a serious budget. We have.  We have proposed a Ryan budget.  Where's yours?
     So they're going to clash over this, but, Anderson, that's not the big point right now.  The critical point is, as Moody's is warning, as Ben Bernanke warned today in Congress, the critical point is this country must not go into default on August 2.  And they need to reach some minimal agreement to avoid that.  
     That should not be hard to do.  Now, what they can get beyond that is really important, but it's not as urgently necessary as making sure we get this done.  Then we can move to the more moderate-term crisis or the moderate crisis, moderate-term crisis, which is the huge deficits.  We do have to solve those, but not before August 2.  We have to get a deal to avoid a catastrophe on August 2.  
     COOPER:  So, Nicolle, for Republicans tomorrow, do they need to change strategy, given what happened today?  Or what do they do going into this meeting tomorrow?  
     WALLACE:  Look, it was Barack Obama who stood in the Rose Garden just a few months ago and talked about he -- when he signed into law the extension of the Bush tax cuts, he seemed to understand that raising taxes is not the right thing to do at this time for our country.  
     So I think Republicans -- the difference between putting Social Security reform on the table and tax increases on the table is that Social Security and our entitlement programs are on a road to disappear.  They're not going to be there if we don't do something about them.  
     Taxes don't have to increase.  Most people believe that we pay plenty of taxes, that we are not an undertaxed country.  So they're being treated with a moral equivalence because there's an intense negotiation taking place and our legislators have guns to their head to meet this deadline.  
     But I don't think that when the dust settles, that they will be treated as comparable items.  And I think that where the Tea Party, the establishment Republicans, and the independent voters of America are the most closely aligned is in their belief that the size and the cost of the federal government is way too much.  
     COOPER:  Nicolle Wallace, David Gergen, Paul Begala, thank you very much.  
     Let us know what you think.  We're on Facebook.  Follow me on Twitter @AndersonCooper.  I will try to be tweeting tonight in this hour as well.
     Up next, a "Keeping Them Honest" investigation.  This is a fascinating story, a man who claims to be a former Islamic terrorist traveling the country advising law enforcement about terror.  Just one catch -- CNN's found no evidence he was ever actually a terrorist. And actually there's another catch as well.  Your tax dollars, our tax dollars are going into his pocket.  Find out what happened when our Drew Griffin confronted him with questions.  We're "Keeping Them Honest." 
     And later, a very close call for CNN's Ben Wedeman and his crew in Libya.  This is about as close as you can get to being caught in the middle of a firefight.  Take a look.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     (SHOUTING)
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Wait!
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Wait!  Wait!  Wait!  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  Wait until you see what happens next.  This goes on.  We will talk with Ben also.  He was all right and his crew was all right at the end of it, but some incredibly tense moments.  This is going to get your heart to stop.  We will talk to Ben also and show you the rest of that video.  
     First, also, let's check in with Isha Sesay.  
     Isha, what are you following?
     ISHA SESAY, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Anderson, new developments in the Halle Berry case.  Her alleged stalker had a court date today.  We will tell you how he pleaded and what the court had to say -- that and more when 360 continues.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     COOPER: "Keeping Them Honest" tonight, a fascinating report about your tax dollars going into the pocket of a man who claims to have unique insight on terrorism because he used to be a terrorist.  
     Walid Shoebat is his name.  He claims to have bombed an Israeli bank, been a member of the PLO who attacked Israeli soldiers and grew up a devout Muslim who hated Jews.  Now converted to Christianity, he travels America lecturing churches and police about the dangers of Islam and he gets paid for it.  
     His books have titles like "God's War on Terror," "Satan's Footsteps" and "Why I Left Jihad."  They were big sellers where we found Shoebat, speaking at the South Dakota Conference on Homeland Security.  He was there addressing more than 300 police officers and first-responders.  
     His message was American Muslims need to be profiled.  All Islamic organizations from doctors to engineers to students ought to be investigated and mosques in the U.S. should be considered terror centers, not houses of worship.  He says terrorism and Islam are inseparable.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     WALID SHOEBAT, TERRORISM SPEAKER:  You want them to say that Islam was hijacked.  It was not hijacked.  Islam is Islam is Islam.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  Well, full disclosure:  At one time or another, CNN and other networks have turned to Shoebat for his perspective on the war on terror, an apparent look from the inside.  
     But "Keeping Them Honest" tonight, we're discovering that Walid Shoebat's story just doesn't seem to add up.  
     Here's CNN's Drew Griffin of CNN's Special Investigations Unit.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
     SHOEBAT:  I think we are at war with Islamic fundamentalism and Islamism, which stems from Islam.  No historian can deny that Islamists basically invaded Christendom.  
     DREW GRIFFIN, CNN INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Walid Shoebat's message is the epitome of good vs. evil.  He has an advertised pedigree that makes him an expert: Islamic-terrorist- turned-ultra-conservative-Christian.
     A U.S. citizen because his mother is American, he is a darling on the terror circuit, the church and university circuits, and, yes, he believes the war on terror is a holy war.  He portrays himself as a man converted and on a mission, once a Jew-hating, bomb-throwing terrorist, now a devout Christian convert warning the world Islam is out to destroy you 
     SHOEBAT:  (SPEAKING ARABIC) That's how you recite the Koran.  I know the Koran inside out.  English.  And if you meet the unbelievers, then smite off their necks.  What part of smite off their necks you Americans don't understand?  
     GRIFFIN:  His message before a largely positive crowd of cops and emergency responders at this South Dakota Homeland Security Conference, trust no Muslim, especially those who organize.  
     SHOEBAT:  Know your enemy.  Know your enemy.  All Islamist organizations in America should be the number-one enemy, all of them, the Islamist organizations.  Islamists inside North America should be focused on.  You got that on camera?  Yes, please.
     YELLIN:  He is being paid $5,000, plus expenses, to speak here with your tax dollars.  He was also given a Rapid City police guard during his time in the city, a nice day's work.  
     And judging by his Web site, where he highlights more than three dozen speaking engagements, Shoebat gets a lot of work.  
     (on camera):  Being a terrorism expert has become a cottage industry since 9/11.  The Department of Homeland Security has spent nearly $40 million on counterterrorism training just since 2006.  DHS doesn't keep records on how much is spent just on speakers.  
     But some of the so-called experts who go around the country teaching and in some cases preaching about terrorism and the dangers of Islam are not quite what they seem, people, it turns out, like Walid Shoebat.  
     The first thing I want to ask you is, what was the purpose of your talk this morning to these cops and emergency responders here in South Dakota?  
     SHOEBAT:  Well, being an ex-terrorist myself is to understand the mind-set of the terrorist, number one.  
     GRIFFIN (voice-over):  An ex-terrorist.  It's Walid Shoebat's claim to fame, a terrorist, a PLO member who bombed a branch of an Israeli bank in Bethlehem Square, throwing a firebomb on the bank's roof.  
     The problem with the story, with a lot of Shoebat's stories, there's no evidence for them.  And despite CNN's many requests, neither Shoebat, nor his business partner have provided us with any.  
     (on camera):  Bombings in Bethlehem Square, you specifically said you threw.  
     SHOEBAT:  The bank was in Bethlehem Square.  
     GRIFFIN:  You threw explosives on top of that bank?
