
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired January 18, 2011 - 22:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Tonight: guns, kids and politics. Child safety experts say doctors should ask kids about -- and their parents about whether they have a gun in their house.  So, why do some Florida lawmakers now want to throw doctors in jail for doing just that?  We're "Keeping Them Honest."  
     Also tonight: continuing our series of "Notorious Cold Cases." Do you know who the Amber in the Amber Alert is?  Tonight, we reintroduce you do a little girl who was found dead 15 years ago, the search for her murderer a cold case, the pain felt by her family still very real.  Her brother speaks publicly for the first time.  And I talk to John Walsh about the case.
     And, later, Dr. Laura Schlessinger lands on our "RidicuList." Back in the summer, she used a racial slur 11 times on her radio show. But Dr. Laura says the uproar that followed wasn't her fault at all. Guess who she blames?  CNN.  
     We begin, though, tonight, as always, "Keeping Them Honest" with a story about guns, kids and politics.  legislators in Florida are now trying to throw pediatricians in jail for talking to parents of child patients about guns and gun safety.  They want to make it illegal for doctors to ask parents if they have a gun in the house.
     Representative -- representative -- Republican Representative Jason Brodeur doesn't just want to make it illegal.  He wants it be a felony, carrying a fine up to $5 million, up to five years in jail. Let me repeat that.  He and the bill's co-sponsors, one of whom you're about to meet, want to make it a felony, with a fine of up to $5 million or up to five years in jail, for a doctor to talk to parents about guns in the home.  
     Now, we all know kids and guns can be a deadly combination.  You don't have to look any further than just today, when a 17-year-old was arrested after police say a gun in his backpack accidentally went off at a Los Angeles high school, injuring two students.  We don't know whose gun that was or how the teen allegedly got ahold of it, but it is just the most recent in a long and tragic line of examples that illustrate the point.  
     According to the CDC, some 1.3 million kids are growing up in homes with unsecured loaded weapons.  So, clearly, someone needs to be talking to kids about gun safety.  The NRA does it, but many pediatricians also believe they can do it as well.       The American Academy -- Academy of Pediatrics has guidelines for this, something called TIPP, the injury prevention program.  This is its "Guide to Safety Counseling and Office Practice."  It gives pediatricians guidelines what about to talk to parents and kids about and when to prevent childhood injuries.  
     Guidelines cover all sorts of questions to ask parents, things like:  Do you keep medicines out of the reach of your kids?  Do you have working fire extinguishers?  Does your child wear a bicycle helmet?  And they suggest asking, is there a gun in your home or the home where your child plays or is cared for?  
     Now, if parents say they do have a gun, the pediatricians are advised to recommend they should -- quote -- "remove all guns from places children live and play."
     The advisory goes on to say, more than 5,000 kids and adolescents are killed by gunfire each year, injuries almost always inflicted by themselves, a sibling, a friend.  It goes on to say handguns are especially dangerous.  If you choose to keep a gun at home, store it unloaded in a locked place.  Lock and store the ammunition in a separate place.  
     So, pediatric experts want doctors to ask the question, is there a gun in your home, a question the bill in Florida would make illegal. So what is the motivation behind the bill?  
     Brodeur says -- Brodeur says it's about privacy.  He told "The Tallahassee Democrat" -- quote -- "What we don't want to do is have law-abiding firearm owners worried that the information is going to be recorded and then sent to their insurance company.  If the overreaching federal government actually takes over health care, they're worried that Washington, D.C., is going to know whether or not they own a gun, and so this is really just a privacy protection." 
     But is it really a privacy issue?  During the health care debate, the NRA successful lobbied Congress to include a provision banning health insurance companies from charging higher premiums for people who keep a gun in their home.  
     Just a short time ago, I spoke to a Florida state representative, Frank Artiles, who is a co-sponsor of the bill that would make it illegal for doctors to ask their patients about guns.
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
     COOPER:  Representative Artiles, pediatricians ask parents about smoke alarms, about trampolines, about keeping prescription drugs out of the reach of kids.  Why shouldn't they talk to parents about how to properly store a firearm, given the number of kids who die every year in firearm accidents?  
     FRANK ARTILES (R), FLORIDA STATE REPRESENTATIVE:  I -- I don't have a -- a problem with the pediatricians giving safety advice to a parent and/or a gun owner.  However, I do have a problem when a pediatrician refuses to do his job because a parent refuses to answer a question of whether or not they own a weapon.  
     COOPER:  But -- but, I mean, you're -- you're referring to one case in Ocala, Florida.  And -- and the pediatrician didn't refuse treatment.  He simply said that, you know, he and the patient weren't on the same page, and he gave the family a month to find another doctor, basically saying they weren't on the same page.  
     Doctors are allowed to do that.  They -- they do that all the time.  
     ARTILES:  You -- you are correct that he offered for a -- for the Ullmans (ph) to go to another pediatrician.  
     However, the reality is that the -- the Ped -- the American Association of Pediatrics makes it a point to tell all physicians to actually, during the questionnaire of a -- of a family, in reference to a child's medical history, to actually ask whether or not they own a gun, and, if they do own a gun, to remove the gun from the home, not to advise as to how to properly store and/or safe -- safely place the gun out of reach of children.  
     COOPER:  But -- but that's not true actually.  I mean, they say -- yes, advise them to -- you know, we -- we suggest -- they're not telling them exactly what to say, but they're suggesting tell them to remove the -- the gun from -- from the -- the -- from the child or from -- from the access to the child.  
     But -- but if that's not an option, then they give information about how to safely store a weapon.  
     ARTILES:  But Anderson, my question to you is very simple.  If I go to the doctor in reference to my child as being sick, and imagine if I lived in a -- in a very rural area and the doctor basically asked me whether or not I own a firearm -- firearm, and I tell the doctor that it is -- it is a private matter, and the doctor then refuses to attend my child in a rural area.  That's a -- that's a grave concern, especially in Florida.  
     COOPER:  But -- but that's a hypothetical, and you -- you don't have a lot of cases where that's actually happened.  Doctors for years have been talking to parents about gun safety.  So, you're -- you're passing...
     (CROSSTALK) 
     COOPER:  What you're suggesting is passing a law that would outlaw them from being able to even ask that question, being able to talk about gun safety.  
     ARTILES:  I'm not preventing them from discussing firearm safety and/or pool safety and/or car child restraint safety.  
     I'm simply, as a co-sponsor of this bill, clearly saying that you cannot predicate your treatment on whether or not they answer a question on whether they own a gun or not.       COOPER:  This bill calls for felony charges, a $5 million fine, five-year prison sentence.  A -- a second DUI conviction in Florida will only cost you about $2,000 or $4,000.  Do you really believe a doctor asking about gun safety is worse than a two-time drunk driver?
     ARTILES:  I truly believe that that is an area in the bill that -- again, this bill in its infancy and it still has to go through the process.  I believe that that is going to be changed quite dramatically -- dramatically.  
     COOPER:  So, you think the -- the penalty...
     ARTILES:  A -- again...
     COOPER:  ... is -- is way over the top?  
     ARTILES:  The -- the penalty, in -- in my personal opinion, I think could be worked on.  However, the -- the reason that I truly -- that I believe that it was put on that -- put that amount was because the penalties serve as a deterrent.  
     COOPER:  Representative Artiles, I appreciate your time.  Thank you.  
     ARTILES:  Thank you very much, Anderson.  
     (END VIDEOTAPE) 
     COOPER:  What's interesting and what the representative said is, he seems to believe that this law does not actually prevent the doctor from asking that question or talking about it.  It just prevents the doctor from denying care.  
     I spoke with a Dr. Louis St. Petery, the executive vice president of a Florida chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics.  And that's not how he reads the bill.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
     COOPER:  So, under this law, is it your -- I mean, what the representative is saying is that, under this law, doctors can still ask the question; they just can't refuse treatment based on the answer.  
     LOUIS ST. PETERY, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, FLORIDA CHAPTER, AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS:  No, sir.  I -- I read the bill, and it -- it forbids us from asking about firearms.  And it also forbids us from breaking the relationship if a parent refuses to discuss firearms.  
     And, as you correctly pointed out, there's a jail sentence of up to five years and a -- and a financial penalty up to $5 million, which is horrendous.  
     COOPER:  Well, he's saying that -- point blank, that -- that -- that this doesn't outlaw asking the question.  I mean, that was not my understanding, frankly.  
     ST. PETERY:  No, sir, that's not what the bill says.  The bill says we can't ask about firearms.  
     COOPER:  Right.  The -- the bill says right here, it says -- the bill says, "provides that inquiries by physicians or other medical personnel concerning ownership of firearm by patient or family of patient, or presence of firearm at private home or other domicile of patient or family of patient violates privacy of patient or patient's family members, respectively, prohibits conditioning receipt of medical treatment or care on person's willingness or refusal to disclose personal and private information."  It goes on.
     So your understanding is that...
     (CROSSTALK) 
     COOPER:  ... you will -- doctors won't be able to ask the question and certainly doctors wouldn't be able to refuse treatment?  
     ST. PETERY:  That's certainly what that says, that you just read, yes.  That's -- that's my understanding.  
     And, of course, you know, for pediatricians, prevention is the name of the game.  And more -- more children between the age of 1 and 18 die from accidents than they do from diseases.  And it's not illegal to have a pool, and discussing pool safety is very appropriate.  It's not illegal to have a car, and discussing seat belts and booster seats and buckling your children up is very appropriate.  
     And it's not illegal to have a gun, and a lot of children -- any -- any child death due to a firearm is a preventable death.  And, so, as pediatricians, we are taught to and are encouraged to and feel obligated to discuss that particular item as a safety issue.  
     And, as I read the bill, we wouldn't be allowed to even ask whether they have a firearm.  
     COOPER:  You have been a practicing pediatrician in Tallahassee for some 35 years.  How often have you run into parents who didn't want you asking about firearms in the house?  
     ST. PETERY:  That's never been an issue that I have been aware of, and I'm also the executive for the pediatricians of the state. And I'm not aware of our members seeing that as a problem.  
     We more commonly run into this with parents who don't want their children immunized or who want special immunization schedules...  
     (CROSSTALK) 
     COOPER:  How -- how many cases have you actually heard about of doctors turning away patients because parents don't want to talk about a firearm?  
     ST. PETERY:  I have never heard of that, other than in this particular case.  
     COOPER:  So, you have only heard of one case, this case in Ocala...
     ST. PETERY:  It's also... 
     COOPER:  ... that got into the paper, the -- which is what motivated this bill?
     ST. PETERY:  Yes, sir.  Yes, sir.  
     And -- and it's also interesting that two bills almost -- almost identical to this, with the exception of the penalty, were filed several years ago, one in Virginia and one in West Virginia.  So, this isn't a new concept of -- that physicians can't discuss the issue.  
     Fortunately, those bills didn't pass, and -- but I have never heard of a situation where a -- a parent refused to discuss whether they had firearms, and a physician dismissed them from their practice. 
     COOPER:  Did it sound to you like the representative didn't understand what was exactly in this bill?  
     ST. PETERY:  Well, I know that there are multiple people who have sponsored this bill, and perhaps some of them were more interested in certain parts.  
     But, yes, I -- it -- it appeared to me that the -- the reading of the bill indicates that -- that I cannot discuss with a parent whether or not they have firearms, whereas he didn't seem to feel that it read that way.  
     COOPER:  Dr. Louis St. Petery, I appreciate your time.  Thank you.  
     ST. PETERY:  Thank you, sir.  My pleasure.  
     (END VIDEOTAPE) 
     COOPER:  So, rather than just be a he said/he said, let's try to clear this up legally.
     Joining me on the phone, senior legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin.  
     Jeff, I'm no lawyer.  All the coverage of this -- this bill seems to indicate that it would outlaw doctors from asking this question. The representative who is co-sponsoring it doesn't seem to believe that.  Is he wrong?  
     JEFFREY TOOBIN, CNN SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST:  He's wrong, Anderson.  
     You know, sometimes, laws are complicated and sometimes they're not.  And this law is not complicated.  And the first clause -- you read it when you were talking to the doc -- says simply that inquiries by physicians about guns violate patients' privacy.       COOPER:  But it doesn't say it prohibits.  The -- and the next graph uses the word prohibits.  In -- in the first graph, it just says provides.  So, isn't it just -- couldn't it just -- it seems like he's reading it saying, well, we're just saying it's a violation of privacy, but what -- all the thing -- the only thing we're prohibiting is actually denying service.  
     TOOBIN:  I -- I just don't think that's a -- that's a realistic reading of -- of what the law says.  
     "Provides" is how most law begins.  They say the law provides the following.  And this law provides the following, which is that inquiries violate patient privacy.  I -- I -- I just don't see how you can read it any other way.  
     Now, you are right, and the -- the state senator is right that you can't refuse -- a doctor can't refuse treatment on the ground that the refused -- that the -- the patient's family refused to talk about the firearm.  That's true.  But it also prohibits, as it's written now, asking about the gun.  
     COOPER:  And the idea of a -- of a five-year jail term, I think, it was and a $5 million fine, compared to a two-term DUI, which is like a $4,000 fine, does that make sense to you?  
     TOOBIN:  Well, you know, that's -- that's up to the legislature. That's' -- I mean, that's the kind of judgments that the legislature makes, you know, what penalty fits what crime.  
     It certainly seems like an excessive penalty to me, but, you know, we can -- we can debate about what is the appropriate punishment.  You can't debate about what a law says.  And this law simply says that you can't ask about guns, if you're a doctor.  
     COOPER:  Jeff Toobin, I appreciate you clearing it up.  Thanks very much.  
     And let us know what you think.  You can join the live chat at AC360.com.  
     Still ahead:  Newt Gingrich tells Sarah Palin to tone down her message, as her poll numbers drop.  Will she listen?  Should she listen?  Why should Newt Gingrich be giving her advice?  "Raw Politics" ahead.  
     And later: "The Washington Post" reporting that surveillance video from the Tucson crime scene captured the alleged shooter gunning down Congresswoman Giffords.  What the video reportedly shows, Tom Foreman has that -- next.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     COOPER:  Well, tonight, we have learned exactly what happened when Congresswoman Giffords and others were shot in Tucson 10 days ago.       "The Washington Post" reports that surveillance video from the Safeway supermarket shows the alleged gunman, Jared Lee Loughner, walking right up to Giffords, shooting her in the head from a distance of only two or three feet.  
     The details are pretty stunning.  CNN has worked to confirm the story independently.
     Tom Foreman has more -- Tom.
     TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Anderson, "The Washington Post" is reporting that authorities have almost two dozen surveillance videos of the shooting and the events leading up to it, and two sources tell "The Post" that these videos show a lot of details we didn't know.  
     For example, "The Post" does say, indeed, that Jared Loughner allegedly comes right out of the supermarket, walks rapidly around the table set up for this meeting, and fires the shot at the congresswoman from only a couple of feet away.  
     The sources cited by "The Post" say that, after he does this, she's obviously clearly hit just above the left eye, falls immediately.  Then he turns and begins firing on the crowd.  
     We don't know how exactly many shots, but several.  And, after doing that, then he swings back around to the front table and resumes shooting there.  He hits one of her workers, Ron Barber, in the shoulder.  He's 65 years old.  And then Judge John roll, the sources tell "The Post," jumps in here, and he pushes Barber to the ground and gets on top of him, apparently trying to shield him with his own body, as they both scramble underneath this table.  
     This is the first indication we have had of this, what would certainly seem to be a heroic action by the judge.  Nonetheless, as we know, the judge does wind up getting shot in the back.  He struggles briefly.  And, of course, as we know, Anderson, he then died.  
     COOPER:  Surveillance video is obviously pretty poor quality. What about in this case?  Or do we know anything about it?  
