
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired March 2, 2012 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ANDERSON COOPER, HOST:  Erin.  Thanks.  
     We begin with breaking news.  The second deadly round of tornadoes this week, another massive weather system churning out monster storms, funnel clouds like this one from Indiana, where this video was taken, all the way to Alabama.  Damage widespread, but especially bad in southern Indiana, parts of Kentucky.  Total devastation parts of Clark county, Indiana.  The town of Henryville especially hard hit.  At least five reported dead at this hour.  State of emergency in Kentucky.  We've got reports from all across the area. 
     First, though, I want to check in with Chad Myers for the very latest for who is still in direct danger right now -- Chad.  
     CHAD MYERS, CNN AMS METEOROLOGIST:  Anderson, believe it or not even at this late hour and typically storms die off by now, we still have 19 different cells, 19 different storms that are rotating enough or have tornadoes on the ground to have tornado warnings on them, 19 separate storms.  
     These storms go all the way from Louisiana to Florida to almost Atlanta, Georgia.  One now crossing the border from Atlanta.  A little farther to the north on up, the third storm of the day for Chattanooga right there, tornado warning on that, especially just off to the east. 
     And then farther on up we're seeing pretty big weather still in eastern Kentucky.  That may be where the biggest tornado was all day in west Liberty, Kentucky.  And that even move to -- it stayed on the ground almost 60 miles as a big tornado and then moved into West Virginia proper.  
     Farther up to the north as you'd expect, the rain back farther off to the west, though.  This is what caused this weather.  It is snowing.  In fact blizzard-like conditions across parts of Wisconsin. That's the cold air.  Down to the south, that's the warm air.  Warm air.  Cold air, don't like to mix.  The cold air pushes the warm air up into the air.  It causes bubbles, bubbles cause storms and storms can rotate.  These are all by themselves.  They're called meso cyclones, super cells.  Well, super cells put down super big tornadoes sometimes.  
     COOPER:  How long into the evening is this expected to continue?  
     MYERS:  We don't expect this to be over until at least 11:00 when temperatures go down at least 10 degrees from where they are now. They have to understand, the more it rains, the better that is because the rain cools off the atmosphere too.  But it was sunny all day across the south.  Although from Tennessee to Alabama, Georgia, it was just sunny.  Temperatures were almost 80 degrees in some spot and that's what it took.  And that's what -- that's what made these storms so volatile.  
     COOPER:  Chad Myers, appreciate it.  We'll continue to check in with you as warranted.  
     On the phone is a storm chaser, Jeffrey Piotrowski, who rode out the worst of the weather in Henryville, Indiana.  What was the scene like when you got to Henryville, Jeff?  
     JEFFREY PIOTROWSKI, CNN STORM CHASER (via telephone):  Well, Anderson, shortly after the tornado hit the city of Henryville, there was very heavy damage.  The first thing we come up on was an elementary junior high school.  And most of the schools had let out during the day but there were about 71 children still at the school at 2:30 time frame.  When that happened, the roof collapsed, the walls collapsed and they were trapped in a part of the building.  It took the local fire department and some local people, medical people to help get the kids out of the school.  
     While we were trying to get the kids out of the school, tornado number two hit us again about 15 minutes after the first tornado and that produced baseball to softball-sized hail, 80-mile-an-hour winds and did massive damage.  I mean, we had people running.  We have people -- they got hit with baseball and softball-size hail and injured while they were trying to pull people from the rubble from the first tornado.  That was in Henryville.  It went on up to Marysville. I understand Marysville thought took a massive, heavy hit, Anderson. The town -- some accounts are the town is gone.  I can't get up there, but, Anderson, there's massive damage at Marysville.  
     I cannot confirm any fatalities or injuries at Henryville.  
     COOPER:  Right.  
     PIOTROWSKI:  I'll say that there was massive storm in there this afternoon after about 3:00 at school and around the city. We were looking for a state sheriff that was missing and we found him and just basically digging people out of the rubble in the city of Henryville. It's pretty bad.  
     COOPER:  Jeff, I mean.  These type of storms at this level, it seems very early for early March, isn't it?  
     PIOTROWSKI:  It is, Anderson.  And here, there's a warning -- there's a warning to Americans all over the U.S.  Mother nature is telling you right now when you have outbreaks in February as we saw last week and the week before, the first week in March we have another super outbreak under way tonight and this afternoon, this is a warning sign.  What it's telling you is that the gulf of Mexico is warmer than normal.  It's telling you we're going to have a lot more violent outbreaks in March and April.  We're not even in peak season until May so this is just a precursor of what's coming and people need to be prepared.  You need to have a plan, whether you're at school, at home, at the office, you need to have a plan.  This is just the beginning of what's coming over the next 90 to 120 days across the southern Eastern in that state and it's going to be a very, very tough year.  
     COOPER:  Jeff, you talked about the kids in the school.   They are OK, yes?  
     PIOTROWSKI:  Yes, the kids -- there was no kids injured or parents or teachers at the school that were injured.  A lot of people are frightening.  A lot of kids had water on them and insulation on them (INAUDIBLE).  They climbed up were having to step over rubble. Different walls and sections and break doors down to get people, you know, through the doors and some people had mud and water on them and scared and the fire alarms were going off inside the school.  So inside the school was a very bad situation.  It picked up cars and buses and threw them into the school.  It's a very bad scene there at Henryville.  
     COOPER:  Yes, we're seeing the pictures of the school buses just tossed around like they were toys.  
     Jeff, appreciate you talking about what you saw today.  This damaging storm system as we said and as Chad reported covers a major portion of the middle of the country.  The storm now extending as far as the Atlanta area.  
     Let's go to Rob Marciano.  He is just outside Chattanooga, Tennessee.  Rob, what was it like there today?  
     ROB MARCIANO, CNN AMS METEOROLOGIST:  I tell you what, Anderson, it's been a rough eight hours here in eastern Tennessee.  It all started with a tornadic thunderstorm that rolled through northern Alabama around lunchtime, made its way across the border and right across Chattanooga.  By 1:00 it touched down just north and east of where we are here in Tennessee.  
     Some of the pictures coming out of there, multiple homes damaged, if not destroyed, 40 to 50 of them at least.  We have nine or ten injuries of people that are at area hospitals and 15 or so people that were treated and released on the scene.  
     So far the good news is even with all this damage, there have been zero fatalities.  Now, search and rescue crews continue, but we've had two other storms that have come through just in the last hour and a half.  So those operations have been suspended.  One of those storms dropped a tremendous amount of hail on us right here, up to an inch or so in diameter hail.  The hail core blocked our vision of what was a tornado that was reported just to our south by a couple of miles.  And now, just about 15 minutes ago, yet another cell came through that went tornadic just to our south and east.  
     And the main line, as Chad pointed out, has still yet to come through.  So a frustrating, devastating day here for the folks who live just north and east of Chattanooga, Tennessee, with the damage that's already been done and the ongoing storms that they have had to deal with, one after another and another batch coming in about two hours from now.  
     COOPER:  And have there been deaths or injuries reported in Tennessee?  
     MARCIANO:  Not in this section.  I can't speak for the rest of Tennessee.  Just to the east of here in a place called Cleveland on the other side of the highway, homes destroyed and injuries over there as well.  
     So, you know, between what happened today and the storms that rescuers have had to deal, with not everybody is accounted for.  So that operation is ongoing.  And we're hoping that that number stays in the zero mark, but from what I've seen today, there's a lot of damage out there, Anderson.  These were some potent storms that have come through.  
     COOPER:  Yes.  And Rob, you agree that for this time of the year, this is very early for these kinds of intense storms?  
     MARCIANO:  Absolutely.  And really the time of the year and where these storms happen is where you have to look for the red flags.  We had a tornado reported in Nebraska two days ago.  That's never happened in the month of February, so there's a red flag right there. And as Jeff pointed out, to have this sort of outbreak which is very much a mid to late April type of scenario is certainly alarming.  
     I should also say this, we have moved out of the area that's been devastated.  We were evacuated because of the oncoming storms.  That's why al you see behind me is some rescue vehicles.  We are at the command post which is also acting as a shelter.  Some areas, some churches that tried to open up to be shelters, they didn't have power as well, so it's been frustrating for residents, victims and rescuers alike here in eastern Tennessee.  
     COOPER:  Yes.  Chad Myers is also standing by.  Chad, if you can put this in context for us, why are we seeing this so strong, so early in the year?  
     MYERS:  Didn't really have a winter.  We're already into spring even though it says March 1st, 2nd, 3rd, whatever.  It's not even there.  We're already past that Spring wise.  The snowpack isn't there.  We had a cold air mass come down.  We had so warm of a winter here in Atlanta and moist too.  There's been rain the past couple of weeks so the humidity is on the ground.  And it was that snow.  You know, I showed you that snow that's in Wisconsin now.  You get the cold and the warm to clash.  You get a trough in the jet stream.  That jet stream is coming in from the southwest, pushing on up to the northeast.  That's why the storms are going in that direction.  
     It all came together in a perfect line, and we knew this, days ago that this was going to be a big day.  This is just one of the -- there will be four or five days like this across America this year. This is a big day.  This is called a high risk day.  There's slight, moderate, high.  They don't put high risks out very often, maybe three to five times a year.  Today was a high risk day.  We knew all the ingredients came together.  It's like making soup.  You have all the stuff, you make great soup.  We had all the stuff today.  
     COOPER:  Does that automatically mean that it's going to get worse, you know, as the months progress?  
     MYERS:  You know, not really.  There's not a great correlation there.  There's some type of correlation there because of the la nina, el nino pattern to the pacific and also we didn't have a winter.  But you take a look at what Europe had.  Europe had hundreds of fatalities because of the cold.  We didn't even see cold really for the most part, and now, so as the whole situation changes from summer to winter, what could possibly happen is that we lose spring by May.  We may not even have a severe weather season by May.  The jet stream could be up in Calgary and that will be the severe weather will be. And so, the entire severe weather season may just be early.  It may be a month early to come and a month early to go.  
     COOPER:  Chad, I want to go to Lawrence Smith.  He is with our affiliate WDRB.  He is on the phone in Louisville, Kentucky.  
     Lawrence, what did you see today?  I understand you came very close.  
     LAWRENCE SMITH, REPORTER, WDRB (via telephone):  Yes, I was in Henryville, Indiana, Anderson.  We were sent up there to cover the coming tornado.  We pulled off at the Henryville exit off i-65 north and moments after we arrived, we saw the twister coming across the highway right at us.  The video was incredible.  The experience was incredible.  But it came across.  We ran inside a nearby convenience store with about a half dozen other people.  
     COOPER:  We're showing your video right now.  
     SMITH:  We waited for it.  The building shook, the lights went off.  The noise was incredible.  And it passed right by in front of us.  Fortunately where we were, we were not injured, but across the street from us, a few hundred yards away, total devastation.  
     A gas station across the state a few hundred yards from us leveled.  An apartment complex beyond the gas station leveled.  Trees torn down.  It was an amazing sight to see.  But there was some heroic people there immediately who began to go in and pull people out.  
     I don't think there were any injuries in this particular -- there were injuries, I don't think there were any particular deaths in this area, but it was an amazing sight to be in the middle of a twister as it bears down on you.  
     COOPER:  Lawrence, I mean, we're looking at the images you and your crew took as you were trying to seek safety from this.  What does it feel like to be so close?  I mean the temperature change, what is it actually -- what's the experience like?  
     SMITH:  There was no temperature change.  It was very quiet, first of all, until it got close to you and then it became this terrific roar.  Then you could see the debris begin to swirl.  And we decided we better get inside a building and get away from this as fast as we can, so we went inside and continued to shoot from inside the building from the window.  And you could see the debris flying everywhere.  The noise was deafening.  People were screaming inside the building.  It passed by us within a few hundred feet and hit the town of Henryville to a horrific effect.  It was just amazing to see the kind of damage that storm could cause.  
     COOPER:  It's extraordinary to see the images.  How fast did it go by you?  Did it move past you?  
     SMITH:  To tell you the truth, it seemed like forever but it was probably only about a minute or so that it took to pass by us.  But as we looked to our east as it passed by us, we could see homes just being ripped apart.  
     COOPER:  Lawrence, I'm glad you and your crew were safe and able to get these images for us.  Appreciate it, Lawrence Smith, remarkable job today.  
     Our breaking news coverage is going to continue throughout this hour with late updates on this powerful and deadly storm system.  
     Let us know what you think on facebook and Google plus.  Follow me on twitter @andersoncooper.  
     Up next, a powerful firsthand account of the Assad regime in Syria, about their bombardment of its own people, of the lies that just keep coming out about what's going on, telling more lies today.  
     And we have somebody who can directly contradict the lies that we are hearing from the Syrian regime today because they're telling lies about him and he is alive to tell us the truth, photographer Paul Conroy just got out of Syria, just got out of Homs.  A lot of people died trying to help get him out.  He calls it a medieval slaughter. That's happened, and a medieval slaughter that's about to continue. The only difference now is there's no one left in Homs who can videotape it and document it and tell the world about it.  But tonight he will.  
     I urge you to listen to this.  We'll be right back.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     COOPER:  "Keeping Them Honest" tonight begins with a terrible, terrible truth and the grotesque lies being told about it over and over again.  The truth tonight is stark and simple.  The people in Baba Amr, the neighborhood in the Syrian city of Homs that's been under attack now for weeks, those people are now entirely at the mercy of the regime that has been trying day after day and week after week to murder them, to kill them.  
     They have been targeted by the heaviest weapons of war, even though there's no war, only killing.  In the words of a man who just escaped from the city who just saw all of it happening, what's going on Baba Amr is, quote, "the medieval siege and slaughter of civilians, the medieval siege and slaughter."       The lies meantime from the Assad regime do not stop.  The Syrian foreign ministry issued a statement that pretty much left us speechless.  It was about the rocket attack that killed journalist, Marie Colvin, and a photographer, Remi Ochlik, and wounded another photographer, Paul Conroy, who you are going to hear from a little moment.  
     In the statement, the statement reads, quote, "The Syrian government immediately after hearing the sad news that Miss Colvin had been killed exerted immense efforts to find out the circumstances under which Miss Colvin was killed."  
     It's hard to say anything about that but Paul Conroy can say plenty about it.  As we said, he was on the receiving end of that same attack that killed his colleague.  We spoke to him just a short time ago.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     COOPER:  Paul, you were injured in the shelling that killed your friends and colleagues, Marie Colvin and Remi Ochlik.  How are you doing, first of all?  
     PAUL CONROY, PHOTOJOURNALIST (via telephone):  I am OK.  I'm in London now.  I've seen a lot of specialists.  They have got the wounds under control in my left leg and removed some metal from my abdomen, so I'm stabilized now.  
     COOPER:  You've covered wars all over the world for a long time. In terms of what you saw happening in Baba Amr, in Homs in Syria, how does it compare?  
     CONROY:  I would say quite categorically, that's the most ferocious, vicious and unnecessary that I've seen.  And there are actually no military targets within Baba Amr.  All of the intense shelling is directed at the civilian population.  So it's quite a unique situation in Baba Amr. 
     COOPER:  Is it even a war?  I mean, is it accurate to call it that?  
     CONROY:  No, I think it would be wrong to call it a war.  This is, I think, a medieval siege and slaughter.  I would hesitate to use the word "war." 
     COOPER:  Slaughter.  You say it's a slaughter?  
     CONROY:  Absolutely.  It's a slaughterhouse in there.  And the city of and people -- it's a very small neighborhood.  I was in Misrata for the peak of the shelling there.  At least people had space to disappear and run and change neighborhoods.  
     In Baba Amr there is nowhere to go.  The area is ringed by snipers, so any attempt at leaving the neighborhood is met by sniper fire.  And the buildings are low, single story buildings generally. They can't withstand the heavy artillery that's being fired into them. So it's a slaughterhouse.  
     COOPER:  In terms of what's going to happen now, if Syrian army forces have left as they said they have and the military, the Syrian regime is able to just move in and take control of the area, as it seems they have, what do you think is going to happen?  
     CONROY:  I mean this was everybody's, you know, biggest fear.  I think most people in Baba Amr had unfortunately had to accept their fate and the world has once again stood by and watched as this assault continued.  I think now people have accepted the fact that they will probably end up dead.  They were preparing to die.  When I was rushed out of the place, I think most people accepted that the west.  Nobody was coming to their help and they were prepared to go to their death. It's unfortunate.  
     COOPER:  And now Syrian forces are free to go house to house, apartment to apartment and seek whatever revenge they want.  And there's really no one there anymore to document it.  No international correspondents and even locals with access to you tube cameras and uploading things on you tube?  
     CONROY:  Absolutely, Anderson.  Unfortunately now -- that was a line of defense to a point, the fact that this could be documented and maybe hopefully the presence of photographers and journalists, both western and Syrian, held a modicum of security.  
     But now that's gone.  This will continue in the dark undocumented.  And I fear that the opportunity will be taken to exact revenge on these people which told an (INAUDIBLE) to stand off to a regime that would intense on flow.  But now, the cameras are gone and we can only imagine the horrors that will unfold in Baba Amr.  I fear to think of what's going to happen to the people now.  
     COOPER:  In the last interview I did with Marie Colvin, before she was killed, she used the word lies, about the lies the Syrian regime has told.  It's a word we use on this program a lot to describe the inaccurate statements they have made over the last 12 months.  
     Syrian state television now says that calm has been restored in Baba Amr and they have aired interviews of people who say armed terrorists were the ones responsible for shooting and chaos.  And that's the line the regime has been pushing since the beginning of the conflict.  When you hear what they have to say, what do you think based on what you saw?  
     CONROY:  I feel sick, Anderson.  I mean, this regime one day hopefully will answer at the Hague.  But the level of lies and deception are beyond -- I hate to use the world human.  I hope the outside world doesn't believe any of this nonsense.  
     They've executed, massacre slaughtered, butchered, women, children, men for the last ten months.  And the last two weeks that this regime has committed crimes.  They're not war crimes, they're just crimes.  This is just outright murder.  There's no war involved. I think the height in beyond the veil of lies, of their own Camorrism.      It doesn't address, Anderson.  This is pure outright murder of civilians in their homes by a heavily armed force with impunity have shelled and destroyed these people.  We saw that.  Marie Colvin died witnessing this.  And she saw that, I saw that, we've seen it.  This is absolute nonsense of the regime.  
     These are educated people.  These are not people in the hills of Afghanistan.  These people were educated at universities.  There's a whole system in place, and for 40 years the Syrian people have lived under this system, themselves expert in the lies, deception and murder.  
     We once again stopped by and watched the whole regime commit murder.  Not war crimes, there's no war.  The war is a fallacy.  This is murder of civilians.  It is from a regime that is expert in lying and death.  They hopefully we stand by and watch them die.  Let's hopefully get these people on trial at the Hague, the crimes against humanity.  
     COOPER:  The other statement the Syrian government made today was that they said that they were on the verge of approving a visa for Marie Colvin so that she could travel to the country legitimately. They have said that oftentimes.  They promise visas to people and never delivered on that.  
     They also claim they're going to launch an investigation to find out how Marie was killed.  Do you have any doubt in your mind how Marie was killed and who killed her?  
     CONROY:  I was with Marie when she was killed and I know who killed her.  There's no need for an investigation.  They were professional artillery men, targeted, bracketed and murdered Marie Colvin.  And after, they murdered Remi.  This was murder, there's no need for investigation.  
     The Syrian regime -- I mean I -- you know, I'm sitting there mourning the loss of a friend and a colleague and I have to listen to this nonsense from the murders themselves.  It's like the murders are investigating the murderers.  It's laughable.  
     COOPER:  And the final thing, I believe it's important to confront their lies constantly because otherwise they go unanswered. The Syrian government is also now saying that they were actually trying to help you and other wounded journalists leave Baba Amr but it was the insurgents who refused to let you leave.  
     CONROY:  Once again, Anderson, we're looking at -- it's a pathetic attempt at lying.  If that's the best -- I would go face to face on television with any of that Syrian regime and challenge their lies.  That's an open offer to the Assad regime.  If they had to face me on a one-to-one interview, I will refute their lies face to face. If they give me a visa, I will come to Damascus and refute their lies. That's an open challenge for the Assad regime.  I have that confidence.  I will travel back to Syria and we can have it out face to face.  
     COOPER:  We would like to get a visa too and travel back with you.  Paul Conroy -- 
     CONROY:  If you can arrange that, then I'll go with you and we'll confront this regime on their lies.  
     COOPER:  They no longer come on my program.  We've called them on their lies a few too many times but we keep asking.  
     So listen, Paul, I've never met you but I have such respect for what you've done and I'm so sorry for the loss of Marie and your friends and your colleagues.  And I'm glad you're back and alive and speaking out, because you're one of the few people who has witnessed the murders and the slaughter.  So thank you.  
     CONROY:  Thank you, Anderson.  
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     COOPER:  Paul Conroy.  
     Just ahead tonight, much more on the powerful storms that pummeled a wide stretch of the U.S. tornadoes left miles of damage in their wake.  It's a day of sheer terror in a lot of small towns today. 
     Also ahead, in raw politics, Rush Limbaugh's comments about a female law student put him in the cross-hairs of being slammed by all sides.  
