
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired July 2, 2011 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>ALI VELSHI, CNN ANCHOR:  Who gets paid and who doesn't?  That's the question that Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner may be forced to answer if the debt ceiling is not raised by next month.
Welcome to YOUR MONEY.  I'm Ali Velshi.  What is it?  Chaos, catastrophe?  No one can say for certain what's going to happen if the debt ceiling isn't raised.
Now the prevailing thought is that those who hold U.S. debt bond investors would be paid first.  This would prevent America from defaulting on loan payments.  Those are payments that we use to keep the engine of our economy running.
What about everybody else?  According to the Bipartisan Policy Center, it would be impossible to keep paying for all of the most popular and important programs that you rely on.
That means possible reductions or delays to Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, food stamps, maybe checks to federal workers, some combination of the above.
Jeanne Sahadi is a senior writer with CNNMoney.  Every week, we lay a confusing scenario from Washington.  Jeanne, helps us make sense of it.  Jeanne, what is likely to happen about a month from now if we hit this deadline without a deal to raise the debt limit?
JEANNE SAHADI, SENIOR WRITER, CNNMONEY.COM:  Well, you mentioned the Bipartisan Policy Center report.  They estimate that about half of U.S. bills won't be paid, some 40 and 45 percent.  That's a lot. That's a lot of bills.
And you know, it is the Social Security recipients who could be affected.  It could be our military.  It could be our federal workers. The truth is it's going to be a chaotic situation choosing who gets paid and who doesn't.  That's going to create some bad blood.
It's an unnecessary situation from the administration's perspective. Congress could, in fact, not let that happen.  They could step up and make a decision about raising the debt ceiling.
Even one of the world's largest bond investigators, Mohamed Arien, he was saying - you know, he's been a big proponent of debt reduction plans.  But even he said, you know what, if it comes to kicking the can down the road because we can't get a deal before the debt ceiling has to go up, kick the can down the road a little and raise the debt ceiling.  It's serious. VELSHI:  All right, and that's the important thing to remember. Harvard professor Ken Rogoff is a former chief economist for the International Monetary Fund.
Ken, listen to this with me.  Republican Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison said we're about to find out how serious the Obama administration is about reducing spending.  Listen to what she said.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (R), TEXAS:  You do the things that are essential.  This is where I think the administration is going to be tested.  If they won't make an agreement that will have spending reforms, if they start doing the chicken little thing by not paying Social Security recipients or people in our military or interest on our debt and instead choose to cut the things that will hurt the most, but not the things that they could cut responsibly, that's going to be the test that they're not serious.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
VELSHI:  Ken, she's talking about a test.  Is this a logical test?  If you strongly believe that spending needs to be cut or taxes need to be raised or somehow the budget needs to be dealt with, is this the way to keep the administration's feet to the fire?
PROF. KEN ROGOFF, HARVARD UNIVERSITY:  I think this is nuts.  I mean, it's taking a huge risk.  It's like we have a train going 100 miles an hour towards a bridge, a draw bridge and they're deciding whether to raise it at the last minute.
It's too late.  I mean, you can talk about a year from now.  You can talk about long term deficit reduction plans and by all means, let's do it, but you can't raise the debt ceiling.  It will be utter chaos. I think it will cost us a lot of money, tens of billions of dollars.
VELSHI:  This is interesting because people are talking about it as a cost-saving measure.  If you can pressure the administration and congress into cutting spending, it will save money.
But the danger is in doing so, it could end up costing more money. Diane Swonk is a chief economist with Mesirow Financial.  At a press briefing this week, President Obama made clear that he thinks we need a limit on the debt ceiling.  Listen to what he said.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  We have to seize this moment and we have to seize it soon.  The vice president and I will continue these negotiations with leaders of both parties in Congress for as long as it takes.  And we will reach a deal that will require our government to live within its means and give our businesses confidence and get this economy moving.
(END VIDEO CLIP) VELSHI:  Here's my issue, Diane.  I mean, between you and Jeanne and Ken, you all live in worlds that are highly specific.  You have data that has to be analyzed.  We are a month away from this thing.
We hit the debt ceiling back in May and we are still talking in broad generalities that are dictated by philosophy and ideology. Everybody's saying what they thing we should do largely, but nobody's really got a plan.
I would think at this point different sides should be negotiating details.
DIANE SWONK, CHIEF ECONOMIST, MESIROW FINANCIAL:  Well, you're absolutely right about that.  In fact, I just got back from Europe where I met with economists from all over the world, financial economist from all over the world.
They think we're nuts.  They're dealing with, you know, riots in the street in Greece and they've got, you know, real insolvency problems, real default problems and they can't believe that we would threaten one when we don't need to.
I agree 100 percent with Ken on long-term deficit reduction and actually it is going on.  I've been in Washington several times working with the bipartisan committees and the nonpartisan groups trying to get these committees together.
The gang of six with Biden, the gang of five, gang of six, they keep calling themselves the gang of six, but you know, they're actually looking at structural reforms, long-term deficit reduction.
But there's no time at this point in time to tie to it the debt ceiling.  They could come to some kind of agreement in principle, but there's no time to write legislation and pass it at this stage of the game.
And to play chicken with this, something that is really are -- we've gotten threats from the rating agencies on our credibility as a country to service our debt.  This is just nuts.
VELSHI:  You know, just keep your calendars free on the night of August 1st because if this deal gets done, you know it's not going to get done a minute before - the last minute that needs to get done. Jeanne Sahadi -- 
SWONK:  Which is also ridiculous.
VELSHI:  It is ridiculous.  Jeanne, let's just think -- one of the reason - one of the excuses some people are using for not supporting this is that there's a doomsday scenario, there's a nightmare scenario out there, which isn't true.
I want to take you back a couple of years to the day -- the Sunday when it was announced by a lot of smart people here in New York City that Lehman Brothers was going to be allowed to collapse because the market would be able to absorb that.
Guess what happened?  Global capital markets and credit markets froze instantly.  Nobody really knows how serious or how not serious it's going to be.  It's quite a risk.
SAHADI:  Well, it certainly could be a progression of from bad to worse.  You know, I think if August 3rd comes and they haven't raised the debt ceiling, it's plausible to say not too much will change.
For Tim Geithner, will not be having a summer vacation, but he will have to make some really tough decisions.  He will have to make decisions about who not to pay.  I disagree with the notion that we're going to save money if they just prioritize spending.
This is money that's owed.  The government contract - has already signed a contract.  The services have been provided -- 
VELSHI:  This is the TV you already bought, this is the house you bought -- it's two separate discussions, right, Ken?  I mean, I think there's a very valid -- I think most Americans would agree, very valid discussion to be had about holding on to spending, controlling spending and ideological differences.  We're talking about bills we have incurred.
ROGOFF:  That's exactly right, Ali.  We have already spent the money. We have signed the contract, what Jeanne and Diane are saying is absolutely right.  It's too late.  It's not, I didn't mean to spend that much last year.
We made the decisions already.  You can talk about going forward. It's a lot of grandstanding and posturing.  And indeed, some countries take a real crisis to make these decisions.  We need to change our course.
But this kind of super artificial crisis is a little scary because if something goes wrong and they don't do their homework a day in advance like President Obama's daughters, I have to say my daughter sure notice that had -- 
SWONK:  I reminded my kids, too.
ROGOFF:  We could have a disaster.  If we could package that, we could get out of our productivity slump.
VELSHI:  Let me ask you this, Diane.  There is also an argument out there that says for all the danger that the world -- from a credit perspective will disrespect the United States if it has to miss payments on commitments it's already made.
There are those who say the world will respect the United States for seriously looking at its budget and taking tough decisions.  Do you believe that could be plausible?
SWONK:  The world will seriously respect us if we take a look at our deficit -- long-term deficit reduction over the next 10 to 15 years and come up with a plan. It has nothing to do with the debt ceiling.  I've already - I mean, I've talked to all these people.  These are investors.  These are financial leaders among some of the top banks around the world.  And they think we're nuts.  They just can't believe we would do -- 
VELSHI:  So we're doing this as an either/or, when in fact, smart people say, they're both necessary.  You've got to raise the debt limit and you've got to deal with the budget.
SWONK:  Absolutely.
VELSHI:  Ken, just real quick.  We are unique.  The United States is unique in this business of having a debt ceiling that has to be constantly dealt with by Congress.  Most countries deal with it in a different way.
ROGOFF:  Well, I think everybody has some procedure like this.  I think we are unique is it's become such a defining moment.  The House has found that they have a tool.
They can get power they didn't realize they had.  But if we regularize this, one day we'll screw up and we'll actually have a default and it will be a mess.
VELSHI:  All right, stay exactly where you are.  The housing bust triggered our financial meltdown and the housing recovery continues to be missing in action.
Are we getting any closer to solving that key problem in our economy? For those of you with a house to buy or a house to sell, I'll tell you what's ahead for housing.  Stay with us.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
VELSHI:  So how did America go from boom to bust?  The short answer in this particular case was housing.  From consumers to major banks, it seemed everybody was tied into a boom in housing prices, and anyone who wanted to could get a mortgage.
The recession ended two years ago, but the housing market continues to stumble.  Recently, though, we've been getting mixed signals.  In May alone, existing home sales were down another 15 percent.  One in every 605 housing units received a foreclosure filing last month.  That could be anywhere from the first process to where you turn in the house.
It's about a third fewer foreclosures than a year ago and at least housing prices stop dropping in April snapping an eight-month losing streak.  Now this data may sound bleak to you, but if you have the money and you're ready to buy, I continue to argue that this would be a good time to do so because prices may be drop further, but they're pretty low.
As for your mortgage, there's really nowhere for interest rates to go but up.  Let's go back to Ken Rogoff for a moment.  Ken, QE2, the second stimulus, the second quantitative easing, the money that the Federal Reserve has put into the economy ended this past week.
If the fed is really done pumping money into this economy, isn't it logical that interest rates would start to go up?
ROGOFF:  Well, first of all, the economy is really soft and maybe gotten softer as they've started withdrawing the stimulus and that keeps interest rates down.
Second of all, I really think it didn't do that much in the end. It had only a fairly marginal effect.  It had a lot of ceremony and theatrics.
But they didn't do it really forcefully enough or frankly big enough to really an affect so that's why withdrawing it is a big moment in some ways, but it's not hitting markets like people thought it might.
VELSHI:  Let's ask Jeanne Sahadi about this.  Let's tie it back to the conversation we were having about this debt ceiling.  In theory, if one misses a payment -- think about this as your mortgage or your credit card -- if you miss a payment or you signal that you're going to miss a payment, your interest rate tends to go up.  Is that likely to happen to America and for people with mortgages and loans?
SAHADI:  Well, Ken is right.  A lot of the bond investors I've talked to have said, look, contrary to popular belief, if we don't raise the debt ceiling, rates may still stay low because economic growth expectations have been reduced.
And also if we come up with a big spending cut back, it's just going to go into effect right away, markets may worry that it's going to impinge on economic growth even further.  So that's a possibility.
But, you know, that's sort of a near-term picture.  Over the long term, you're right.  Interest rates have nowhere to go but up.  And the question is, what would the U.S. do that would trigger something to push them higher?
Credit rating agencies are not going to like -- if we pay bond investors, that's great.  But if we continue to not pay money we owe money to, like the government contractors.  You know fixed ratings say, we're going to be put on ratings watch negative.
That is going to show - that's going to reduce confidence in your sovereign credit worthiness.
VELSHI:  Isn't that tough for people to understand because the same thing happens to you.  If you choose that you're paying your mortgage, but not your car bill, your credit rating still going to go down and your credit cost is going to go up.
Ken, let's talk about the housing market in general.  It played such a big part in this boom that got us here.  Does it have to play a big part in our economic recovery or can we just go on without housing coming back as quickly as we would have liked?
ROGOFF:  Well, I think we're going to have to go on without housing coming back really quickly.  I do think you're right, Ali, that if you have the cash, it might be a good time to buy in some places.
But it's hard to get the cash because if you don't because credit is pretty tight.  It's part of what holding the prices down.  You know, in a typical financial crisis, housing is at the center, it takes a long time to work its way out.
It comes later than the rest of the economy.  I think the rest of the economy will have picked up before the housing market really has a boom again.
VELSHI:  And Diane, they shouldn't work independently, right?  I mean, if the rest of the economy is picking up and more people are working and the stock market, which has been doing well, but for the last few months, that should lead to an increase in housing -- housing values?
SWONK:  Of course, that is the way it should work.  But as Ken has written quite a bit about in the wake of a financial crisis, the credit conditions are tight.
And with the new Dodd/Frank bill, there are some I think 300 different constraints on mortgages going forward.  So it's going to get etch hard tore get a mortgage going forward, which will compound the problem in housing.
I think it is a great time to buy if you can afford to buy and turnkey properties are seeing some activities because there's not a lot of them on the market.  But there's still a big backlog of foreclosures.
We've done nothing to change our legislation on foreclosures to going forward to clear the inventories we have or to stop this problem from happening again.
VELSHI:  All right, so we're all optimistic that things can happen in the right direction.  We're all fearful that our legislators could do the wrong thing right now.
Thanks to all of you, Ken Rogoff is a professor at Harvard University, former chief economist with the International Monetary Fund.  Diane Swonk is a chief economist at Mesirow Financial and Jeanne Sahadi is a senior writer at CNN Money.
All right, you know we have an unemployment crisis in this country. Why it might be worse than you think, but more importantly, how can we actually solve it?  We have some solid ideas next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
VELSHI:  All right, we talk a lot about the unemployment rate in this country, but I want to tell you why that might be a red herring. There are a few relevant indicators to look at if you really want to gauge how well we're doing when it comes to jobs and more importantly creating jobs.
Let me give you a few different ways of looking at this.  Let's first look at the pace of job creation.  Over the past 12 months, on average, the economy has added 72,000 jobs per month.  Now, this includes months where we've added jobs and months where we've lost jobs.
Many economists say we need to create 300,000 jobs per month to significantly reduce the unemployment rate to where we were before the recession started.  I will tell you that that hasn't generally happened in the entire history of the United States.
We are more likely to get into the 200,000 job a month growth rate when we're really doing well.  So we're not adding enough jobs.  But there is job growth on average over the last 12 months.  Now, how many different types of industries are expanding?
This is relevant because you don't want to have an economy where you're just adding jobs in the health care sector and the oil industry.  Over the past 12 months, 69 percent of sectors have added job. That might sound pretty good, but keep in mind we're coming from a very bad place.
We lost a lot of jobs.  We basically hit rock bottom, losing 8 million jobs during the recession.  But the point is there is growth across the board in many industries.
Let's take a look at the quality of jobs available.  More than 8.5 million Americans who are currently working part time want to be full time either because they want more hours or they want the benefits that typically come from full-time work.  They are also a lot of workers now who are temporary or freelance.
Mort Zuckerman is the editor in chief of "U.S. News and World Report," Eliot Spitzer is host of CNN'S "In the Arena" and Arianna Huffington is president and editor in chief of the AOL "Huffington Post" media group.
An August panel, I might say.  I know you all have opinions on this. I'm going to start with you, Mort.  You've recently written something where you say when it comes to unemployment, we are worse off than we actually realize.
MORT ZUCKERMAN, EDITOR IN CHIEF, "U.S. NEWS AND WORLD REPORT":  Yes, because the real unemployment rate is close to 18 percent than it is to 9 percent.  The reason for that is the average length of unemployment now is 40 weeks.
The number that you referred to, the 9.1 percent that is put out by the government, the so-called headline unemployment number, is they only count people who have applied for a job in the last four weeks.
When you've been out of a job for 40 weeks, you don't apply for a job every four weeks.  If you measure it by another government statistic, which is called U6, they measure people who have applied for a job in the last six months, which makes more sense, the unemployment rate is 15.9 percent, almost 16 percent.
But there's another as you referred to the quality of jobs.  The fact is in each of those months and indeed for the last two and a half years since President Obama has been in office, not a single net permanent job has been created. In the last month, they announced there were 54,000 jobs were created. We lost over 100,000 permanent jobs.  In the preceding month, we lost 290,000 permanent jobs.  So the jobs that are being created, the net job creation is all in part-time work.
