
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired August 29, 2011 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ANDERSON COOPER, HOST:  Gloria, thanks very much.  Good evening. We begin with breaking news.  Floodwaters still rising from Hurricane Irene, rivers and streams still cresting as we speak; entire towns submerged or destroyed.  This didn't end when the wind died down. This was and continues to be a very big deal and water is the reason why.  
     You're looking at where the town of Prattsville, New York used to be.  Prattsville, parts of it are gone.  A town of about 600 people, parts of it washed away.  Everyone got away safely, but they don't have much to return to.  
     This is what it looks like at ground level.  The correspondent who shot this compared it to Joplin, Missouri, after the tornado.  She was stranded by rising floodwaters.  She joins us shortly, still stranded there, actually, tonight.  
     Irene dumped as much as a foot of rain on the northeast onto already waterlogged ground into already full rivers and reservoirs. Look at that truck trying to get through the water.  That water has to go somewhere and it doesn't care what or who is in the way.  
     This scene in New Jersey where even big military trucks were having a hard time getting around.  From Virginia to Vermont, rivers and streams are overflowing.  Some now well above record flood levels or soon to be.  Largely because of flooding, damage from Hurricane Irene could hit $7 billion making it one of the 10 most expensive disasters in American history.  As many as five million people are still without power, five million people.  Lines are down nearly everywhere Irene hit.  Several people have been electrocuted, some have drowned.  
     A short time ago, the death toll rose to 27 when we learned of three new deaths in Vermont.  We're going to have more on the danger shortly, but first how we got there.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     (voice-over):  Saturday morning, 7:30 a.m., Hurricane Irene makes landfall as a Category 1 hurricane.  
     Waves slammed the North Carolina coastline as the storm packs winds of up to 85 miles-an-hour.  
     (on camera):  Take a look this way.  Nothing but foam.  The sea is absolutely white, just all churned up, whipped by this wind and, again, we're getting hit with some of those strong gusts, right now.  
     What you are looking at here is houses that are about underwater in places.  And this is the Bogue Sound.  You can see that.  You're looking out, right now, at the Bogue Sound that has come inland, here. And there goes the camera, you can feel the wind and the rain.  We have waves literally racing inland.  
     (voice-over):  Irene drops more than 15 inches of rain here causing massive flooding before moving north.  In Virginia, rivers swell, neighborhood streets fill with water.  
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE (voice-over):  This is normally a road but it has turned into a huge lake and it -- it's about -- it's a few blocks long and about three to four feet deep, that's way too deep for your car.  
     COOPER (voice-over):  Irene is still a Category 1 hurricane when it hits New Jersey, early Sunday morning and the winds and driving rain pound the shoreline.  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  These waves are scary.  
     COOPER:  In Long beach, New York, waves surged beyond sand barriers created to protect the city.  
     ROB MARCIANO, NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  You get a sense for the winds here on the coastline.  This boardwalk, now, and it's breached it.  And Street flooding, I can see, still a huge, huge issue.  
     COOPER (on camera):  A very serious storm, a category one storm. There have been fatalities.  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Whoa.  Let's get out of here.  Let's get out of here.  Grab the mike.
     COOPER (voice-over):  New York City is spared the brunt of the storm, Only heavy rain and flooding in areas of lower Manhattan.  But as Irene continues north, Vermont is pummeled.  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I was just woken up 15 minutes ago with a policeman knocking on my door telling me it was time to get out of town because we are flooded.  
     COOPER:  Hotels and residents are quickly evacuated as waters through Brattleboro cresting the banks of the river.  
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Looks like the Whetstone Brook is flooding up Route 9 in West Brattleboro and bridges are out.  Main Street is closed, here in Brattleboro.  Haven't seen it like this in a long time.  
     COOPER:  With waters continuing to rise in rivers and creeks in many states, heavy flooding could be a major problem in the days to come.  
     (END VIDEOTAPE)     Amazing how fast that water is moving.  That's the breaking news, right now.  Rivers still rising, Vermont faces the worst flooding since 1927, 260 roads affected.  Numerous bridges -- look this one, including some straight off a picture postcard.  It's one of those covered bridges just getting overcome with water.  The water finally retreating in places, but still cresting, or yet to crest in others.
     Gary Tuchman has been traveling throughout Vermont, joins us now from North Williston.
     Gary, what's the situation, there?  
     GARY TUCHMAN, CNN NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Anderson, we're in the northern part of Vermont near the state's biggest city of Burlington.  And these are waters from the Winooski River, but we're nowhere near the Winooski River.  The Winooski River is behind me about a quarter mile.  This is a street.  And the flooding in northern Vermont is just starting to crest as we speak, a day after the tropical storm came through.  
     But the worst damage and the worst devastation is not in the northern part of the state, it's in the south part of the state, where we spent much of the day, and that's where creeks and brooks became raging rapids, Hundreds of places that, in some cases were just ponds, where children used to swim, became rapids.  And in three cases, there were fatalities.  Three people dead in Vermont, another person is missing.  
     But, it was incredible, the sights we saw.  At one particular place, we saw rapids going through a building, a building that had collapsed and was hanging precariously over the waters.  Old timers we've talked to have never seen anything like this.  The state hasn't seen flooding like this for more than eight decades.  
     Fortunately the waters receded in this southern part of Vermont, but many homes are flooded and what we see during these catastrophes, is the water recedes, but the problems don't, because many of the homes, hundreds of homes in the state of Vermont, are full of mud right now, and here in northern Vermont, as soon as the waters start to recede, the homeowners here will see their homes are full of mud, too and there are a lot of repairs to make.  
     You know, the state of Vermont, Anderson, is known for its skiing, it's known for its green mountains, but it's inland, it's on the Canadian border, it's not known for hurricanes and tropical storms and the people in this state are suffering greatly, today.  Back to you.  
     COOPER:  And Gary, I mean, how long has the water been at that height at that location?  
     TUCHMAN:  Well, right now, it's really in the process of cresting.  Within the next couple of hours, authorities believe it will diminish and they think by tomorrow all this water, and it's a huge amount of water with a strong current -- they think it will all be gone.  That's what's amazing about hurricane and tropical storms, you see all this water and you can't imagine it disappearing, but it does.  One of the cases where it didn't is where we spent a lot of time, Anderson, New Orleans, after Katrina.  That was because of the levee failure.  That water stuck around a long time.  This water will disappear, but the mud will remain, the problems will remain for a long time.  
     COOPER:  Yeah, no doubt about it.  Gary, appreciate that update. Be careful out there.
     A few hours west, a small town has suffered major damage.  More video here of what -- of the area around Prattsville, New York.  This is Prattsville, New York, a town established back in 1824.  Briefly a boomtown thanks to local Hemlock trees which were used in leather processing.  But until the flooding hit, there were a little bit more than 300 occupied homes in Prattsville.  Right now that is anyone's guess how many homes might still be able to be occupied.  
     Correspondent, Megan Cruz, and her photographer, both from cable news (INAUDIBLE) YNN are responsible for the video you're seeing.  I spoke to her a short time ago.
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     So Megan, you said last night this town looked like it had been wiped off the map.  
     MEGAN CRUZ, YNN REPORTER:  Oh definitely.  We arrived here, probably the late afternoon and we didn't know what Prattsville looked like.  I mean, this is not in our usual coverage area, but when we came it was just all water.  I would not have known that there was even an established community unless somebody said, you see that house here, there are supposed to be other houses around there.  
     COOPER:  And you've been trapped there since last night, right?  
     CRUZ:  I have.  I have.  Let me just give you an idea of the flooding, so you understand why we were probably trapped here last night.  If you could just follow me over here.  
     Can you see where the Schoharie Creek is, right now?  Imagine where I'm standing, that creek flooded to this point and actually a mile out of town, even more.  So, definitely this is flooding that no one has seen here before.  And yes, all the other smaller roads around this area have been flooded.  So, we're being told that there is no way for us to get out.  
     COOPER:  So, for residents there, I mean, what comes next?  When will they be able to go back to their homes?  
     CRUZ:  It's on a case-by-case basis.  Some people, their homes have just been flooded, you know, throughout the basement, others, not so much, even more, actually.  So, they are staying at some of the area's two shelters or they're staying with family and friends on higher ground.  So, it's different for every person.  But yes, I mean, a lot of people have been affected.       If you can see the video that we shot, I mean, this town has just been devastated.  There are parts of the main street that there are plots of land that people are like, you know, there used to be a gas station there, there used to be a home there and all it is just land that's been completely swept away.  So, right now it's just recovery on their mind.  
     COOPER:  And at this point, have officials -- I mean, do they have a toll of how many properties have been destroyed, how many homes?
     CRUZ:  No, they're still serving the area.  What they do know is that of the 800 residents in this town, all have been accounted for. They did have to rescue 31 people on Sunday, but in terms of people, they're fine, they're still evaluating the property.  
     COOPER:  And you're going to stay there tonight, as well, for the same reason?  
     CRUZ:  That's what I just heard.  Our assignment desk just called me up and said they have spoken to the sheriff and that the roads around us have not been opened yet, so I don't know.  I'm hoping that I can try to figure something out, but at this point, yes, it seems we might have to stay here another night.  
     COOPER:  Well, it's great that they were able to rescue all the folks and that no one was -- lost a life or was really injured.  Megan Cruz, good luck to you and your crew.  Appreciate the work and thanks very much.  
     CRUZ:  Thank you.  No problem.
     COOPER:  All right, let's turn now to the bigger picture and where things go from here with Chad Myers in the CNN Weather Center.  
     So Chad, what does it look like?  
     CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Just an awful lot of flooding still to go, because now all of this water that's up a hill has to come down a hill.  We have all these purple maps, now -- all these purple spots.  I want you to be able to go tonight to something called water.weather.gov.  And if you're in any of these areas where the water has to run downhill to get to the ocean or the sound, even whether it's New Jersey or up into Vermont or on up toward Lake Champlain, you can actually go there and see what your creek or stream is forecast to do.  It's a great Web site, you might want to really take a hard look at what you might have to expect.  
     Something else people in North Carolina had no idea they were going to expect today -- tornadoes.  Big storms, right now.  Here's Raleigh, Goldsboro and all those tornadoes, spinning storms, headed toward the ocean, headed out toward the outer banks where they can't even get out of there, at this point in time.  
     The next thing I want to show you is what Rutland, Vermont looks like, can't even get out of town.  I talked to our iReporters there, Mr.  Ritter (ph) said can't get out of town at all, all the bridges are gone.
     And then Tropical Depression No.  12.  I know you wanted to hear about it.  It's Katia.  K-A-T-I-A, kah-tee-ah is the pronunciation. It replaced the name Katrina because it's the six year anniversary of Katrina, today, and they recycle names every six years, but not if they're a memorable storm and Katrina obviously was, so that name will never come back.  Tropical Depression 12, right now, forecasted to be a Category 2 hurricane in five days.  Not that far from where Irene was, but this looks more like a right-turning gutter ball than a land- falling hurricane.  
     Obviously, Anderson, we all know about the forecasts, how they come and go, turn left and right.  Still too early to tell.  We'll keep watching.  
     COOPER:  Yeah, well, let's hope.  Chad, appreciate it.
     You see the pictures, you hear the reporting and wonder what you can do.  You can get involved if you want.  Go to CNN.com/impact. We're going to give it to you again, CNN.com/impact if you want to help those in the affected areas.
     We're going to stay on this story throughout the hour, update you on any new developments.  Let us know what you think.  We're on FaceBook, follow me on Twitter.  @Anderson Cooper.  I'll try to tweet something, tonight.
     Up next, a CNN exclusive.  In Libya.  Nic Robertson locating the Pan Am 103 bomber.  The one who was let out of prison to die, the only person held responsible for the bombing of that plane for all those deaths, stayed alive for two years after being released from prison. He appears to be in pretty rough shape, right now.  You'll hear what his family has to say about his outlook and what's happening in Libya. 
     Later, another villain on the critical list;:  Self-proclaimed prophet and convicted sex offender, child rapist, Warren Jeffs, the latest on his condition.  His condition has taken a turn for the worse.  We'll tell you why he is now in a coma.  He looks completely different than he did just a few weeks ago at trial.  and whether the state can keep him alive against his will.  
     First let's check in with Isha Sesay -- Isha.
     ISHA SESAY, CNN NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  Anderson, new reports tonight in the disappearance of Robin Gardner who vanished in Aruba. Reports, the man she went there with made what sounds like a stunning admission.  You'll see what we found out and what authorities are doing about it in "Crime and Punishment," That and more when "360" continues.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     COOPER:  A lot of late news out of Libya, tonight.  Among the new developments, a claim that Khamis Gadhafi is dead, one of the dictator's sons.  He was the former head of the regime's ruthless 32nd Brigade.  That's a video of him visiting children in the hospital. Reportedly killed in battle.  An opposition official making the claim saying that Khamis was wounded in battle near Misrata, died in a local hospital and was buried nearby.  
     Meantime, Gadhafi's wife, his daughter, Aisha, and two sons, Hannibal and Mohamed have fled to Algeria.  That's according to the Algerian foreign ministry.  The new Libyan government wants them back. They left behind a pretty decadent life for kids of a dictator who claimed to be a simple Bedouin.  
     Opposition fighters had Hannibal home uncovered case after case, hundreds of bottles of fine Bordeaux, crystal champagne.  They also discovered the family's Ethiopian nanny, her body horribly burned. She's still alive.  She said she was tied and tortured by Hannibal's wife who poured boiling water over her.  She certainly looks like it. Her failing, she says, was refusing to beat Hannibal's toddler who wouldn't stop crying.  
     Separately, over the weekend, CNN's Nic Robertson managed to locate the Pan Am 103 bomber.  Here is his report.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     NIC ROBERTSON, CNN NEWS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  We found Abdel Basset al-Megrahi's villa in an up market part of town.  At least six security cameras and flood lights outside.  
     (on camera):  This Magrahi's house, this is where he's been living for the last couple of years.  We're going to knock on the door, see if we can get any answer.  Hello?"
     (voice-over):  For 15 minutes or so, nothing.  
     (on camera):  I'm not sure if they've heard me, so let's try the last ditch means, which is just shout over the wall.  
     Hello?  Hello?  Hello?
     (voice-over):  Then all of a sudden, someone comes.  Nothing prepares me for what I see.  Megrahi apparently in a coma, his aging mother at his side.  
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We just give him oxygen and nobody give us the advice and some food by injection.  
     ROBERTSON (on camera):  Mmm-hmm.  
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  If you see, his body is weak.  
     ROBERTSON (voice-over):  He'd been expected to die almost two years ago, but convicted Pan Am 103 bomber, Abdel Basset al-Megrahi, lives, only just.  
     This wasn't the way he looked when he was released from a Scottish jail two years ago.  He came home to a hero's welcome, freed on compassionate grounds because doctors said he'd be dead in three months.       (END VIDEOTAPE)
     COOPER:  The only man in Libya held responsible for that bombing, so far.  Nic Robertson joins us from Tripoli along with our own Arwa Damon.  
     Arwa, you mention Gadhafi's son Khamis, who commanded that feared militia in Libya, reportedly, according to opposition, he's been killed.  Do we know anything about the circumstances surrounding his alleged death?  Because, as you know, opposition forces have claimed, you know, before they've captured or killed people and it turns out not to be the case.  
     ARWA DAMON, CNN NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  That's right.  In fact they claimed Khamis had been killed on a number of occasions and that most certainly turned out not to be true.  What they are now saying is that he was killed in battle on Sunday around 40 miles to the southeast of Tripoli.  They say hat they buried his body in the desert, but they've put forward no real evidence, there's no images to corroborate their claims, whatsoever.  They have in the past made allegations that certain members of Gadhafi's family had been detained.  They then came out and admitted that that was part of the psychological warfare.  So, until there is concrete evidence that he was in fact been killed, this most certainly should be treated with a certain level of skepticism, Anderson.  
     COOPER:  So Nic, other members of the Gadhafi family have fled to Algeria.  Do we know how they were able to get there?  Because it's not just women in the family, there's also two Gadhafi sons -- Mohamed and was it Yunis (ph), I think his name is.  
     ROBERTSON:  Yeah...
     COOPER:  Hannibal, I'm sorry.  
     ROBERTSON:  Mohamed and Hannibal and their children fled, yeah. And mostly, I think, most people here believe Gadhafi and a lot of his family were in the south of the country and will have just driven westward to the border with Algeria.  The crazy thing, if you like, about the situation right now, Algeria is the only country around here that still recognizes Gadhafi as the legitimate ruler here, and they say that they've taken the family in on humanitarian grounds.  But already the National Transition Council here says we want them back, we want to put them on trial -- unspecified charges, so far.  And beyond that, they say if Algeria doesn't hand them back, they'll treat it as an act of aggression against the will of the Libyan people. They're really drawing a line in the sand, here.  It's almost you get the impression, and if you think the same Arwa, you get the impression that they don't want Moammar Gadhafi and anyone else going out there. It's a message to Algerians, too.  
     COOPER:  Yeah, and Arwa, I mean, this guy, Hannibal, and also Mohamed, the sons, I mean, we've seen a number of sons like Saif, the son who's now, Khamis, who's allegedly been killed, who have a very active role in the military, in militia, in the government.  Do we know much about these two sons?  Are these sort of the playboy sons? I mean, I know there were a bunch who used to -- gave a lot of money to American entertainers to perform in St.  Bart's and clubs.  Are these kind of, people who were just living off the state or getting a lot of money from businesses, doing and kind of traveling around the world?  Were they kind of playboys?  
     DAMON:  It would appear to be the case.  I mean, Hannibal himself, has had a number of instances where there have been allegations that during various visits to Europe he was beating up police officers.  On a number of occasions he was also accused of beating up, breaking his wife's nose, even.  
     As for Mohamed, he is, if I'm not mistaken, Gadhafi's oldest son, from a different mother than Hannibal, as well.  Neither of these two sons have any charges, at this stage, brought against them in the International Criminal Court.  Algeria is saying that it is allowing these specific family members access to the country on humanitarian grounds, but again, as Nic was mentioning, this most certainly is something that the National Transitional Council does not want to be an option for Gadhafi or for any of his other family members, like Saif, like Khamis.  They do not want to see them running away to Algeria and escaping justice.  
     COOPER:  And we'll show you pictures of Hannibal's home that are (INAUDIBLE), it's now been occupied by opposition members.  And you interviewed the nanny who had been, she said she had been badly burned with boiling water from Hannibal's wife because she refused to beat their little toddler son, quite a scene there.  
     Nic, you also had these remarkable images.  You got into the home of the Lockerbie bomber who was released by the Scottish government two years ago.  He looked in really bad shape.  I mean, I feel like I had seen pictures of him a few months ago in which he was visible or he was at some sort of an event.  It looks like he's declining very quickly.  I mean, was that legitimate?  Are those real?  You don't think -- he wasn't faking it while you were there, was he?  
     ROBERTSON:  You know, when you go into a situation like that you always think in the back of your mind, are they faking it?  I saw Megrahi two years ago, he was about 10 feet from me, he was on a stage, this was an event just after he came back into Libya.  He looked much better back then than he does now.  And I really got the impression that his family were tense, nervous, the -- you got the impression that they were very low at that moment, really just sort of sitting in the room there, waiting for him, in a way, to die, if you will.  And he didn't look -- I mean, I kept looking.  I went back and looked at the video, did his eyes move, how was his head on the pillow, did it look like the pillow had been there for a long time? But really, when you looked at his skin, it looked very thin.  When you looked at his wrists they looked very thin.  This did seem to be a man who is perhaps on his last days.  But not being a doctor, not doing proper medical checks, you cannot sort of say with a hundred percent certainty his real state of health here, Anderson.  
     COOPER:  And do -- I know the U.S.  still thinks that Megrahi should be behind bars.  The National Transitional Council said over the weekend they wouldn't extradite him, but it does seem they're kind of backtracking now, aren't they?  
