
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired October 17, 2011 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Erin, thanks very much.  Good evening, everyone, from Las Vegas, the site of tomorrow night's CNN's "Western Republican Presidential Debate."  We begin, though, though, "Keeping Them Honest," with Herman Cain, the latest GOP frontrunner, has been telling people to lighten up and not take everything he says so seriously, especially some controversial remarks he's been making repeatedly about stopping illegal immigration.  
     He says he's only joking and said it again just this evening. But new polling shows him to be a serious candidate at this point. He's now in a virtual tie with Mitt Romney in a new CNN/ORC survey. So people are now taking everything he says seriously whether he likes it or not.  
     As to whether you like what he's saying or not, that's entirely up to you.  But "Keeping Them Honest" tonight whatever political position you happen to have, the question for Herman Cain or anyone wanting to be president is this -- can you be a serious candidate without serious scrutiny of what you say and how you say it?  
     Here's Mr. Cain said on Saturday about illegal immigration.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     HERMAN CAIN (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Well, I tell you what, when I'm in charge of the fence, we're going to have a fence.  It's going to be 20 feet high.  It's going to have barbed wire on the top. It's going to be electrocuted -- electrified.  And there's going to be a sign on the other side that said, it will kill you.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  Herman Cain at a campaign stop in Tennessee on Saturday. Sunday on "Meet the Press," he said, just joking.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     DAVID GREGORY, HOST, "MEET THE PRESS":  On immigration, you said it at an event in Tennessee that you would build an electrified fence on the border that could kill people if they try to cross illegally.  
     CAIN:  That's a joke, David.  
     GREGORY:  It's a joke.  So that was a joke.       CAIN:  That's a joke.  
     GREGORY:  That's not a serious plan.  
     CAIN:  That's not a serious plan, no, it's not.  
     GREGORY:  OK.  You got a big laugh at that.  But that's not what you'd do.  
     CAIN:  That's a joke.  I've also said America needs to get a sense of humor.  That was a joke, OK?  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  The head of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus today not laughing.  Texas Democrat Charlie Gonzalez saying, quote, "Whether or not he made his comments in jest, Mr. Cain's words show a lack of understanding of the immigration issues our country is facing and a staggering lack of sensitivity."  
     Mr. Cain's Republican opponent Michele Bachmann also weighing in today, calling the issue, quote, "no laughing matter."  
     Whatever you think of it this isn't the first time Mr. Cain's tried to get a laugh out of the issue.  Here's an appearance back in June.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     CAIN:  We put a man on the moon.  It might be part great wall and part electrical technology.  You know?  I was describing my fence to somebody tonight.  Got a call and said that's insistent.  I said, what's insistent?  I said, well, let's draw up a fence, and it will be a 20-foot wall, barbed wire, electrified on the top.  
     And on this side of the fence I'd have that moat that President Obama talked about and I'll put those alligators in that moat.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  That was Herman Cain in June.  Two months later Herman Cain saying, hey, lighten up.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  You upped the ante with, quote, "a 20-foot barbed wire electrified fence."  Were you serious?  
     CAIN:  America has got to learn how to take a joke.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  Now it's pretty clear Herman Cain is neither a professional politician or a polished candidate.  He makes no claim that he is.  In fact, takes pride in the fact that he's not.  Last month in South Carolina he told supporters that political correctness is not one of his strong points, then went on to prove it with more remarks about illegal immigrants.  
     Quote, "If we can keep a dog in a yard with an invisible fence," he said, "don't you think we can keep people from sneaking into this country?"  Seconds later he said, quote, "Now I know I'm going to get written up for talking about putting, you know, invisible fences and treating illegal immigrants like dogs."  
     But it's not just dogs, fences and immigrants, a few years back his subject was Tiger Woods.  This is pre-9 iron, pre-divorce.  Herman Cain was touting Tiger Woods as a 2016 presidential material.  He wrote, "The Republican Party should begin grooming him now for a run at the White House.  His personal attributes and accomplishments on the golf course point to a candidate who'll be about a problem solver, not a politician."  
     Sunday he said -- wait for it --  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     CAIN:  That was a joke.  
     UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  That was a joke?  
     CAIN:  That was a joke, OK?  That was a joke.  America's got to learn how to have a sense of humor, OK?  
     UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  It sounds pretty serious.  
     CAIN:  Yes, I can be pretty serious, but also there's some things that, you know, you just kind of take tongue in cheek and you don't make a big deal out of it.  All right?  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  Well, earlier this evening Herman Cain spoke with John King about his immigration remarks.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     CAIN:  John, and yes, I haven't learned how to be politically correct yet, so yes, it probably wasn't the right thing to say.  And I meant -- I did not mean to offend anybody.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  So Cain certainly not backing down as he also did in South Carolina.  He mentions his lack of what he says political correctness as a virtue if not a badge of honor.  
     So will it hurt or help him in the primaries and potentially further down the road?  Let's talk about it with chief political analyst Gloria Borger, who joins me, contributor and a former White House press secretary, Ari Fleischer - you can follow him on Twitter @arifleischer.  Also with us, Republican strategist Mary Matalin, and Democratic strategist Bill Burton, who is President Obama's former deputy press secretary.       Bill, thanks for being with us as well.  
     Thank you.  
     COOPER:  So, Mary, is this much ado about nothing, or is the problem that America doesn't have a sense of human or the media doesn't or that Herman Cain --  
     MARY MATALIN, CNN POLITICAL CONTRIBUTOR:  He needs to -- the surge for him is serious.  It is an attraction to a message that is the 75 percent of the people that still don't support Mitt Romney.  He needs to stay a happy warrior.  But he needs to get serious.  It's not politically correct to have to answer questions about particularly the 9 percent sales tax, or its one thing -- you don't have to know that the name of the president of Uzbekistan, but you need to have clear foreign policy principles.  
     So you can get away with that when you're the third man or you're -- you know, just one of eight, but when he's the frontrunner, he's got to put some flesh on the funny.  
     COOPER:  What about that, Ari?  He says look, people need to lighten up and not take everything he says as seriously as -- you know, can't he make a joke?  
     ARI FLEISCHER, FORMER WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY FOR PRES. BUSH: Well, he's right, but he's right up to a limit, up to a ceiling. Because if you're going to become, as Mary says, a serious presidential contender, you have to go beyond the lines of make a crowd whoop and cheer and you have to be presidential.  
     And I think what Herman Cain is going to have to find is that happy medium between not being politically correct is one of his strengths which really is exciting on the campaign trail, his blunt straight speech.  
     But you don't offend people.  And certainly don't try to kill people which is what electric fences do.  So he's got to find that right ground.  He went too far.  He needs to pull it back but still not be politically correct.  
     GLORIA BORGER, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL ANALYST:  I don't think you tell the American people they need to have a sense of humor.  You don't tell --  
     COOPER:  Though it got a big applause, though, at that last debate.  
     BORGER:  It did.  But we're in the state of Nevada.  You want to tell Hispanics here in this state that they ought to have a sense of humor about immigration policy?  
     This is a candidate who's being vet on the campaign trail.  We don't know a lot about him.  We'll learn a lot more about him.  He's gone from the lowest tier to the top tier.  And he's somebody who's attractive as Mary said to people who are looking for a straight shooter, somebody who talks plainly, but he's got to learn that what he says now has a lot of implications.  
     Can you imagine if a president of the United States had said what Herman Cain said about that fence?  What would that be?  
     COOPER:  Bill Burton, do you agree with this?  That he needs to dial it back?  
     BILL BURTON, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST:  Well, you know, I've been surprised at Herman Cain's rise.  It's sort of astounding to see someone who's got a tax plan that's so regressive as his.  Plays such a role in the Republican primary.  But I agree with Mary, I think that what -- his rise says a lot more about the 75 percent of Republican primary goers who don't like Mitt Romney than it really does about Herman Cain.  
     You look at the string of fairly unserious statements that he's had -- that he's made.  You look at his policies, and you think, is this really the answer for the Republican Party?  And astoundingly actually more people in the Republican Party think that he is compared to Mitt Romney who is the perceived frontrunner in Washington right now.  
     COOPER:  But Ari, I think you raised an important point.  And I was just talking -- hearing some people on Twitter saying the same thing.  That they like the bluntness of Herman Cain.  That in a field of polished candidates and some might even say overpolished candidates, some critics, he stands out as kind of being this blunt guy.  
     FLEISCHER:  This is a year where people are fed up with Washington and fed up with the way Washington does business in the blow-dried hair ways of Washington.  And Cain has tapped into that. He also has tapped into something that exists for a long time. Pushing back against political correctness.  
But you have to push back cleverly, you have to push back in a way that's presidential.  That's the line he has to walk.  It's also a lesson, Anderson, in when you run for president, how hard it is, how many rookies make mistakes.  The trick is do you learn from them and go on to a higher, more presidential level?  
     COOPER:  Well, Mary --  
     FLEISCHER:  That's the task.  
     COOPER:  Is he really running for president?  Because there have been some who said, well, look, he's basically on a large book tour and he's now suddenly surged in the polls, so he's clearly in this thing.  Does he have staff?  Does he have enough people around him?  
     MATALIN:  Well,  I -- no.  He has the big mo, as one of our old bosses used to say, but he's a no show in the states.  I don't care what your message is -- and he has a superior message, although it's not fleshed out.  You have to have -- to get people in the dead of winter for four hours to a caucus in Iowa, that's not an organic event.       You have to have an organization.  Well, everybody is dismissing Perry.  He's got a very solid operation on the ground in Iowa and South Carolina, and Cain does not have those things in place any more. That's not to say he is very useful in the field and his message is appropriate for conservatives in this race.  
     And it's not just getting serious or getting political, people don't like politicians, they don't like the establishment, they don't like Washington, but they want some subject area expertise.  They want some knowledge in this.  
     BORGER:  Well, that's why Mitt Romney, of course, keeps saying that he's a businessman and he's an outsider, because that's the appeal of the Cain.  
     I love hearing Bill Burton say, oh, the Cain rise tells you something about Mitt Romney because, of course, the White House thinks Mitt Romney would be the toughest to beat.  So whatever -- the rise of Herman Cain is really about Mitt Romney.  It's not about Herman Cain. The White House --  
     BURTON:  Well, it is amazing, Gloria.  
     BORGER:  I know, Bill.  But the White House --  
     BURTON:  It is amazing, Gloria.  
     BORGER:  Yes.  
     BURTON:  Well, it's just amazing that Mitt Romney has been running for president for five years.  He spent tens of millions of dollars and his support just has hit the ceiling.  People in the Republican primary just have a fundamental concern with Mitt Romney, for whatever reason it is.  And I think that a guy like Herman Cain being able to step into the polls and get as much support as Mitt Romney is fairly amazing.  
     COOPER:  Ari, do you agree that this is some sort of commentary on the frontrunners?  
     FLEISCHER:  No question about it.  There's still the anti-Romney element out there in the Republican Party, but Anderson, it almost doesn't matter.  That's always the case in a multicandidate field. And so, so long as you have seven or eight candidates, somebody is going to -- this frontrunner will only have about 25 or 30 percent. That's math.  It will eventually go down where Romney has 30, 35 of plurality and whoever will and that's how you get a winner.  
     BORGER:  Cain has twice as much support among in our recent poll among Tea Party voters than Mitt Romney.  So you see where his support is coming from.  
     COOPER:  Yes.  
     BORGER:  And he's taking it away from Perry and Bachmann, and even Paul.       COOPER:  And we're going to talk more about Mitt Romney and Rick Perry coming up tonight.  
     Ari Fleischer, Mary Matalin, Bill Burton, Gloria Borger, stick around.  We'll have a lot more ahead with you over this hour.  
     Next, want to talk more about the people who are pushing Herman Cain to the top of the polls.  Who are the fans of Herman Cain?  
     Let us know what you think.  We're on Facebook.  Follow me on Twitter @andersoncooper.  I'll try to be tweeting tonight in this hour.  
     Later the people who made Mitt Romney's Mormonism, his religion, an issue in the campaign.  Will it lose him the evangelical vote in these primaries and what does it mean to be a Mormon?  We'll take you inside the fast growing and sometimes misunderstood faith.  
     Also tonight, some breaking news.  Any moment now an Israeli prisoner held for years by Hamas could go free.  A young Israeli soldier.  As you'll see the price being paid for the freedom is steep. And some families of Israeli terror victims are furious tonight.  
     First, let's check in with Isha Sesay -- Isha.  
     ISHA SESAY, CNN ANCHOR:  Anderson, another major development in the fight for Libya.  Another defeat for Gadhafi loyalists.  We'll take you where the battle is over and tell you where the final battle is being fought.  That and much more when 360 continues.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     COOPER:  And more on Herman Cain, the former pizza executive, surging in the polls thanks in large part to his 999 tax plan. Tomorrow night's debate here in Las Vegas could be a big opportunity for him to solidify a place in the top tier candidates by appealing to voters on issues beyond the economy.  But those already on the Cain train say they have found plenty that they like.  
     With "Raw Politics" here's Gary Tuchman.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     CAIN:  No more entitlement.  No more entitlement.  
     GARY TUCHMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Say this about Herman Cain.  He's running a different sort of campaign for the Republican presidential nomination.  
     CAIN:  Instead of a signature or photograph, I will leave you all something special that I haven't done all day.  
