
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired August 26, 2011 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>ANDERSON COOPER, HOST, ANDERSON COOPER 360:  Hey, Candy thanks very much.  
Good evening everyone.  We're live in New York's Battery Park.  It is at the southernmost tip of the island of Manhattan.  And come Sunday, parts of this island, most likely including the spot where I'm standing could be under water, covered in floodwater.  
Here's what hurricane Irene looked like when it hit the Bahamas.  New Yorkers now of course are used to seeing this on TV.  Not up close but they might see it here and soon.  Here is the view as Irene began moving up the eastern seaboard.  As it did emergency plans started to kick in.  Airlines began cancelling flights.  Hospitals moving patients and here in New York Mayor Mike Bloomberg issued the first evacuation orders in city history for low-lying areas including the area, including the one we're standing in tonight.  
And for the first time in modern memory, a hurricane warning is in effect for New York City.  Meantime, as we speak North Carolina's outer banks are getting hit.  We have reporters all over the region. And in a moment, we are going to check in with our correspondents who are underground there.  
But I do want to just begin with Chad Myers who just got his hands on a fresh update from the national hurricane center.  Chad, what have you learned?  
CHAD MYERS, AMS METEOROLOGIST:  I've learned the storm has turned to the north-northeast.  That is the continuation of the right-hand turn, Anderson that we talked about so very long.  There's the eye on radar. There's our John Zarrella right there, our Brian Todd right here. I'll take you to it.  This is a very wet storm right now.  
Wind gusts are 45, 47 miles per hour.  And that's going to be the story.  The winds will stay between 40, 50 and even up to 60 all night long before landfall brings it in as a category one hurricane.  Maybe a slight small category two hurricane as we make our way into Atlantic beach for 7:00 a.m. tomorrow morning.  That's where John Zarrella is right now.  
But you have to notice the size of the green.  That's the size of the tropical storm rainfall, almost 300 miles east to west, 400 miles north to south.  That means when it gets close to you, when this storm is within 300 miles of you, you are going to feel the wind of a tropical storm.  And you're going to feel that wind for the next 24 hours.  
So, if you are in a bay like the Chesapeake Bay, that water and that wave action is just going to push water in and the surge is going to be tremendous.  Some spots on the western side of Chesapeake Bay could see eight to ten-foot surge.  Ocean city, 2:0 a.m. Sunday, that's the closest approach to your hurricane eye.  It will be slightly offshore but that's pretty irrelevant.  And for Long Island, 10:00 a.m. Sunday morning, that's the eye landfall.  But for the 12 hours preceding that, the wind will be from the east with it will be pushing water right into the harbor where you are right now Anderson.  
And also on the north side of the sound, Long Island sound and also into the harbor are connected by a river called the east river. That's the river likely to swell because water is being pushed in from two different directions.  The flooding that occurs there's from about the south street seaport to right where you are could be the worst that we see in this storm.  
COOPER:  So, Chad, just in terms of the power and size of the storm. It's been weakening, is that correct.  
MYERS:  That's correct.  It weakened all day today.  But there's a hurricane hunter aircraft, that's it right there, came out of Mcdill(ph) force space in Florida.  If that plane right there just found a 123 mile-per-hour wind.  So, although the storm did come down today, I believe it's getting its act back together right now.  
What we have is a huge storm doing 50 miles per hour.  It's like an ice skater in the Olympics, one foot on the ground, all arms out and the leg out doing a slow spin.  But when that skater pulls the arms in that momentum gets very fast in one small spot.  If this storm brings its arms in that wind speed will increase dramatically because of that angular momentum.  It's the reason why the storm is big and slow or lumbering now but could be significantly faster at any time.  
COOPER:  So, by the time, though, I mean it will hit land, by the time it reaches New York City, though, it will have been over land and will likely slow down, right?  And, I mean, I'm sorry, will likely weaken even more.  So, what kind of a storm is New York City itself looking at, do we know?  
MYERS:  Well, we know that when it goes over North Carolina right through here, there's not going lot of land there.  You have an island.  The barrier island and then you have the sound, chemical sound and there's just basically water.  Now it may travel right over New Jersey and if that happens, it will lose some steam but if it's just offshore like the computer models are saying and so as the national hurricane center, then that wind is going to pound into New York City at 70, 80 miles per hour for many hours and that's where the storm surge comes from.  
COOPER:  OK.  Chad, we are going to check in with you through out the hour.  I want to check in with Brian Todd who is in Wrightsville Beach, North Carolina.  Brian, what's it like there?
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Anderson, a very powerful storm surge here on the beach in Wrightsville.  We're going to take a walk town. You're looking at Johnny's fishing pier.  No fishing going on tonight. Take a look at these images.  
This is a very violent storm surge coming up on the beach here. Emergency management has directed (inaudbible).  This is where we are right now.  He told me a short while ago he's worried about these storm surges, over washing the beaches on the dunes.  We're not far from the towers right this Alexander (ph) over here, very close to the buildings, hotels to the houses  You got about 20 counties in this region that will be impacted by this storm, 3.5 million people. (Inaudible).  A few brave souls out here with me, mo one is allowed it, just watching over the shore.  But they need people to get out of here and get out of here quick, Anderson.  
COOPER:  In terms of wind, in teams of rain, what have you been experiencing?  
TODD:  The wind is not quite as bad.  The waves are very, very sharp and some of the sand is kick up.  The wind is not as high as it will be in a few hours.  But you can see, it's having an effect on the storm surge.  I just talk to couple of people here.  They said they never seen a storm surge quite like this on the beach, here in Wrightsville.  We're getting pounded with a lot of rain and sand drifting with it, whipping us all around.  The beaches down here are pretty abandoned.  People are kind a hunkering down at this point, Anderson.  
COOPER:  And Brian, what time is the storm expected to actually make landfall there?  
TODD:  The latest I heard Anderson is, probably between, I would say 6:00 a.m., 7:00 a.m., in this general area, maybe a little bit later. Then it is supposed to kind of move, powerful elements moving up the coast into the outer banks.  And it's is going to hug the outer banks down there at Wrightsville and it is going to move, it's kind of hard bit out of banks and move north.  So, I say we're you know probably less than 12 hours away from the flux of this thing coming right through, Anderson.  
COOPER:  And has that community largely evacuated or are there still a lot of people there?  
TODD:  We are told that most of them have evacuated.  You know, they take these orders very seriously.  They know what they are doing down here.  But there are a few people down here.  And you can probably you can walk on the beach obviously.  And there are few souls down here who have come down here just to see the real show that the beach is showing for them.  But there are a lot less out here than we got out here a half hour ago.  I think they started to take it seriously and get themselves out of danger.  
COOPER:  Yes.  Brian Todd, appreciate it.  We'll continue to check in with you.  Let's turn now with John Zarrella who has seen an awful at Hurricane.  You know, we've done a lot together.  He's in Atlantic Beach just up the coast on where Brian Todd is.  What's the situation there, John?  
JOHN ZARRELLA, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  All throughout the late afternoon the conditions have continued to go downhill, steady rain, squalls moving in.  I had my wind meter out and I got some gusts around tropical storm force.  Most of the winds have been around 25 miles per hour, pretty steady at about 25 miles per hour.  But just about now ten minutes ago, the curfew went into effect.  You can see this is the main road right through here in Atlantic beach, Anderson and it's closed down.  
The police told people today, went up and down with bull horns and said we're not tolerating anything.  Everybody is off the street at 8:00 p.m.  We're going to let people get over the bridge and get out if they want past 8:00 p.m.  But nobody is getting back on this island until the all year is given.  And as Chad was saying and you know, where we are here, could very well see the center of the storm, the eye wall coming right over us very close to us.  
So, in interesting scenario here because to my right is the ocean. That's south.  The way the coastline comes out.  The storm is coming up to us from the south.  That's the beach.  That over there to the north is the vague sound.  So it's quite possible, Anderson, depending on which way the actual storm hits us from, we could get storm surge coming from the ocean on the front side of the storm, and then see it coming from the back side of the storm once it goes by us.  
Sort of like you and I saw during Wilma back in '05 when the water came up after the storm, center of the storm had passed us and we saw the storm surge coming up.  That's kind of what we might expect here.  
Now, the Salvation Army has shelter to open just over the bridge in Morehead City and Salvation Army started serving meals at the three shelters there at about 8:00 p.m.  I can tell you, lot of people told us throughout the day, they were going stay and the ride this out. But an equal number if not more said you know what?  We're not taking any chance with this.  This could be the worst storm here since the 1950s when hurricane Hazel came through.  So, a lot of older folks who know what can happen from a major hurricane decided they were going to get out.  Anderson?  
COOPER:  Yes.  There's nothing like that experience having gone through it to bring the reality of it home which is something folks in New York have not experienced firsthand.  John we'll continue to check with you.  
Joining us now Ed Rappaport, deputy director of the National Hurricane Center, he joins us tonight from Miami.  So, how does this hurricane compare to others that we've seen?  
ED RAPPAPORT, DEPUTY DIRECTOR, NATIONAL HURRICANE CENTER:  What's different about this hurricane is that the forecast track which is pretty much locked in nuclear program at least through North Carolina, the eastern part of the state.  It is going to be a little bit further to the west than what we've seen for other hurricanes in the northeast and for some folks that means this is the most significant event in 20 years from a tropical system.  
So normally, when we have a hurricane out here approaching North Carolina we see track move on out the sea, missing New England, missing the coast to the south.  From this case, the forecast track comes up through North Carolina, the eastern part of the state but doesn't turn right way.  Instead it moves very close to the shore line, perhaps in across long island and southern New England.  That means all the weather that's usually in this case worst to the east will be much closer to the metropolitan areas this time around.  In fact will definitely hit the southern New England area and since there are strong winds, high surge, right near the center of the storms, we'll see some of that along the east coast as well.  
COOPER:  So for a city like New York I mean what strength do you think the storm will be when it comes into this region?  Is there anyway to say definitively?  
RAPPAPORT:  At this point, what we have is a category two hurricane that's very slowly weakening.  We think it will still be category two perhaps category one as it crosses North Carolina.  Then that continued slow weakening will persist through the landfall in New England but by the time it gets up to the New York area, southern New England probably looking at a lower end category one hurricane, perhaps upper end of a tropical storm conditions.  
What's important about this particular storm is not so much the peak intensity but the duration.  It's a very large hurricane.  And in North Carolina, they are experiencing hurricane force within for as much as ten hours and the whole east coast near the center of the storm will experience tropical storm conditions for as much as 24 hours.  It's a long period of having a battering of wind as well as higher levels of storm surge and because it's so long we'll go through a full tidal cycle in the northeast as well.  There will relatively high tides coming this weekend.  So the high tides this weekend plus the storm surge has us concern for the shore line.  
COOPER:  Yes.  There's no doubt about it.  A lot of damage no doubt probably on Long Island.  I mean, I had no idea, I didn't realize it would linger around for those tropical storm winds for 24 hours. That's with the tidal surge that could be really very unpleasant for an awful lot of people.  Ed Rappaport, appreciate it.  
Let us know what you think.  Follow us of course on facebook and most on twitter @andersoncooper.  I'll try to tweet some tonight, although it's difficult out here.  
Next you are going to hear from a hurricane hunter who just got back from a flight through the storm.  He'll tell you what he saw.  Also, we'll talk to the storm chaser who captured this moment as hurricane Irene hit the Bahamas and hit it hard.  
We also got new video of the damage for you there.  
Let's also check in with Isha essay.  Isha?  ISHA SESAY, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Anderson as the hunt for Moammar Gadhafi goes on searches, have been uncovering his network of escape tunnels and secret bunkers.  CNN's Sara Sidner got a look.  You'll see what we saw tonight when 360 continues.  
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
COOPER:  Our breaking news tonight of course hurricane Irene, the outer rain bands hitting North Carolina on a path heading straight up i-95 right up the east coast, straight to New York City where we are tonight.  
A hurricane warning in effect for the city.  Mandatory evacuations where I'm standing and other low-lying areas around the city.  I'm in Battery Park which is in the southern tip of Manhattan.  Moments ago Mayor Mike Bloomberg spoke to residents here.  Take listen.  
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MAYOR MIKE BLOOMBERG, NEW YORK:  MTA, our local mass transit system will be shutting down bus and subway service tomorrow at noon.  And once gale force winds arrive later in the evening it's going to be too late to go anywhere.  So, the mandatory order requires you to be out by 5:00 p.m. tomorrow afternoon.  From a practical sense if you're not out tomorrow morning you'll find it very difficult to get out.  
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  Well, earlier New York City, excuse me, New Jersey Governor Chris Christie had one last warning for anyone who was still at the jersey shore.  
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE, NEW JERSEY:  Get the hell off the beach and Asbury Park and get out.  You're done.  It's 4:30.  You've maximized your tan.  
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  He said warnings takes many factors in to accounting including detailed information from aircraft flying through the storm. A few minutes ago I talked to the NOAA hurricane hunter in serious who has just been right in the middle of Irene.  I asked him what it was like.  
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
IAN SEARS, HURRICANE HUNTER, NOAA:  Yes.  I'm on NOAA's C-3 aircraft. We just passed through the center of tropical storm, excuse me, hurricane Irene.  The south side of the storm was kind of benign but the south side of the storm here just south here of Morehead City it's quite bumpy and quite hectic up here.  We had to set the seatbelt light for an extended period of time we got knocked around quite good. 
And I've been in a few other storms prior but this is about far for the course especially with the storm at this stage, category one, category two hurricane.  Parts of it can be rough, and parts of it are smooth.  But right now, like I said, we're on the north side just out of Morehead City probably about 20 miles north, excuse me, south of Morehead City and we're getting bounced around pretty good.  
(END VIDEOTAPE)
COOPER:  Getting knocked around pretty good, hurricane hunter Ian Sears.  
Now, some people chase hurricanes from 30,000 feet.  Others do it of course on the ground up close.  Sometimes they get video like this. Take a look at this.  
We showed a portion it to you at the top of the broadcast.  This is what hurricane Irene looked like as a category three storm when it hit the Bahamas.  Storm chaser, Jimmy Eds(ph) shot this video.  And then take a look, this is some of the damage that the storm did in New Jersey's Governor Chris Christie and just about everybody else in a leadership position has said you don't want to thereabout when stuff like this happens.  Jim Edge was.  It's his job.  He joins us now.  
Jim, you were on the island when the storm smashed into it.  What was it like?  
JIM EDS (ph), STORM CHASER:  It was very hard.  We thought maybe we would be close to the eye but it wobbled to the west and we got the worst part of it.  
COOPER:  How badly was the island damaged?  
EDS(ph):  We had some roof structures that were damaged.  South part of the island was breached.  (Inaudible).  Since sails were (inaudible).  But overall, it wasn't too bad.  They build houses a lot stronger here versus the United States.  
COOPER:  Yes, they certainly learned the lesson of past storms.  Jim, I appreciate your time.  Thank you very much.  I'm glad you did OK in the storm.  
The first hints of hurricane Irene are being felt right now in the Carolinas as we've been telling you tonight.  Coming up we'll take you live to North Carolina where the storm is expected to make its first landfall.  We will have the latest on that next.  
And still ahead bracing New York City.  The hurricane is already a historic event first-ever mandatory evacuation order for all five boroughs.  We are going to take a look at the rare time the northeast has taken a direct hit from a hurricane, what kind of an impact that has had coming up.  
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
COOPER:  Well as you know, hurricane Irene is expected to make its first landfall along the east coast of the United States in North Carolina.  Now, a states spokesman said he's concerned about the entire eastern half of the state of, the hurricane could affect 20 counties and 3.5 million people in North Carolina alone.  That's where John Zarrella is with us again tonight from Atlantic Beach.  
John, what time is it expected to come there.  What kind of preparations have they been making?  
ZARRELLA:  They say 7:00 a.m. tomorrow morning, Anderson.  If the eye crosses us here, that's the time the center of the storm is expected to get here.  But just after first light.  Preparations they've taken, not a lot of people have put up shutters or boarded up.  We did see some.  Most of the people here, at least a good percentage of them did decide to leave.  Others said they were going to go ahead and stay. Mandatory evacuation.  Of course that mean they still can't force you to leave.  But they did this mandatory evacuation police are patrolling all up and down here.  Shelters are open, just over in Morehead City over the bridge, two shelters that we know of.  
Salvation Army is serving meals there.  You know Anderson, one thing to point out as we see the wind picking up and we've gone through heavier wind and rain now.  It continues to get heavier and heavier all the time.  You know, inland flooding is what kills more people than hurricanes than storm surge these days.  
So we're seeing already ground saturated here, a lot of run off already beginning.  And, you know, as I was saying earlier, we got Atlantic Ocean to the south here and the vague sound to the north there.  We could have storm surge in both directions as the storm comes by and passes us.  But inland, there could be a lot of inland flooding and that's a real, real risk for anybody who tries to get out and drive in it and then roads are under water, impassable and that is how loss of life occurs.  
But again, Anderson, wind kicking up a little bit, still only right around tropical storm force and gusts.  But the rain is steadier, steadier and heavier, as the moments go by here.  Anderson?  
COOPER:  John, stay there.  I want to bring in Chad Myers just to kind to talk about where you are, where it plays in to where this thing will make first landfall.  
Chad, it terms of where John is what can you tell us?  
MYERS:  John is right there.  There's Morehead City and Atlantic Beach, kind of a dual communities, ones that kind of the ocean and one is the city right behind it.  And John, you have a major cell just to your south and southeast, coming your way.  This is probably the biggest cell that you've seen so far, winds with at least 50.  Right now you're only seeing about 35 to 39.  So, almost tropical storm force, but in the next 20 minutes you will easily get to 50 and 55 miles per hour with that nasty bunch of cells coming your way.  It's one of the inner outer bands now and as the night goes on every single band will get more windy, and more windy and the gusts will go higher a higher.  
COOPER:  And in terms of landfall, you're still thinking what, a category two for that area, Chad?  MYERS:  Absolutely.  And with that landfall, the way the shape of the land is, Anderson, the eye being right down here right now, as the eye comes up and the shape of the land is almost like a bowl.  And it's going to hoard all of the water and is going to make a big storm surge right here as the storm rolls right on top, literally of John Zarrella in about 10 hours.  
COOPER:  Chad, stand by and John stand by.  We just managed to get North Carolina Governor Bev Perdue on phone for us.  
Governor, your state is used to taking some major storm hits.  This is a slower storm bigger than a lot of people have seen for a while.  Are you ready?  
GOV BEV PERDUE, NORTH CAROLINA (via telephone):  Yes, we're ready, Anderson.  We got evacuations complete.  Everything is tied down.  And tonight is a hard night.  We're just waiting for it to hit.  
COOPER:  How have evacuations gone?  I mean, you know people say mandatory evacuations.  But sometimes a lot of folks don't want to leave.  
PERDUE:  Well, obviously some people don't leave.  You have to let people do what they want to do.  That's why it's America.  We feel really good that most of our chores have left.  This is high (inaudible) of tourism weekend, the last of the summer along all of Coastal Carolina and the southern part of the country, and so we got lots of tourists have left.  A lot of real people, people who are citizens decided to stay.  They are smart.  We're urging them to use common sense and not go out tonight in the middle of the storm to see what's happening.  
But again, we feel like that we're prepared.  The big problems will come tomorrow as we see what damage is done ands with we go into full recovery.  But tonight, our shelters are open.  We got marine helicopters.  We got highway patrolman, National Guardsmen.  All our resources are fully deployed.  We feel we have this part of the storm handled.  It's the waiting that's so hard.  
COOPER:  And the president has already signed a disaster order for your state.  You brought in extra National Guard just to help out, right?  
PERDUE:  Yes, we've done that.  We're fully mobilized in North Carolina.  We even got the water rescue team in place across the state.  So, you know we really have done it so many times in North Carolina.  We feel our system is as good.  We've prepared as much as we can but there's always things that are challenges.
So, again, during the night we urge information stay in, to use caution.  We urge people to just be really aware that this doesn't sound like a huge storm right now, 50 or 55 mile-per-hour winds, but it will stay over our state 10 or 12 hours.
That's where the problem comes.  That bowl that you were talking about earlier full of water is going to dump somewhere and when it dumps, there will be a surge of water and who knows what will happen.
COOPER:  That's obviously a big concern here in Manhattan as well, the storm surge and also the slow moving winds just kind of staying in this area for 12 or more hours as you said.
Governor, appreciate your time tonight.  I know you're busy.  Thanks for checking in with us.  We appreciate it.  I want to go next to David Mattingly in Kill Devil Hills.  He is in North Carolina tonight. David, what's the situation there?
DAVID MATTINGLY, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Anderson, the governor hit it right on the head.  The waiting is the hard part. They know what this storm can do.  They've prepared as much as they possibly can.  Now everyone has to wait and see what the storm does as it passes through here.
Every passing hour we're getting a little more rain, a little more wind and the surf pounds just a little bit harder.  We've had rain for a couple of hours steady now and just a reminder of what's going to be coming later tonight.
We got gale force wind right now, some gusts up to tropical storm force winds probably and that will continue to increase.  We're going to have tropical storm force winds overnight and then we're going to have hurricane strength winds during the day followed by more tropical storm force winds.
This is going to ramp up slowly, be here for a while and then ramp down slowly again.  We don't know how many people have actually been staying behind.  You heard the governor talking about this as well. They are not going door-to-door making people to leave.
The people who do stay here have been told though that if you get in trouble, you're on your own.  Everyone has been warned that it's going to be a minimum of 72 hours that they will be on their own during this storm and in the aftermath.
So everyone is advised that if they were staying, they need to have the proper supplies and they need to take every precaution to make sure that they do not need some kind of emergency services because they are not going to able to come help them if there's a problem. Anderson -- 
