
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired November 6, 2010 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ALI VELSHI, CO-HOST:  The midterms are over, but the unemployment crisis isn't, even though there are some positive new signs.  
     Welcome to YOUR MONEY.  I'm Ali Velshi.  
     Let's have a look at the numbers.  These are the numbers for October which we have just got.  One hundred fifty-one thousand jobs added in October, that's better than expected.  
     And we're pulling out here to show you all of 2010 so far, all of 2009 and 2008 back to right in the beginning when jobs started to get lost.  Look at how it has dropped and it peaked and then we started losing jobs again in 2010.  Now it seems we're back on a roll.  
     Here is the other thing.  The job creation in October all came from the private sector.  We've seen losses in public sector. Government jobs are going away, private-sector jobs are coming back.  
     My colleague Christine Romans joins me now.  
     Christine, is this not the way we want thing to go?  We want fewer government jobs, we want more private sector.  Is this a signal that businesses are hiring again?  
     CHRISTINE ROMANS, CO-HOST:  That's what we've been looking for, Ali, for months we have been looking for the evidence that the private-sector companies are confident enough and have enough money and enough demand to start hiring again.  It is over the course of time.  
     Let's just look at what the private sector looks like.  You now have total jobs gained of 1.1 million private-sector jobs since December 2009.  That's incredibly optimistic for many people who have been watching just large scale job losses.  We finally have job gains, Ali, that are not because of the Census or they are not because of government hiring.  They are because companies are starting to hire.  
     I want to be clear, it's not enough to dig into the unemployment rate.  It's not enough to make up for the jobs lost during the Great Recession.  
     VELSHI:  That's why the unemployment rate, by the way, stayed the same, 9.5 percent.  
     ROMANS:  But it's going in the right direction.  
     VELSHI:  Lakshman Achuthan joins us.  He is the managing director of the Economic Cycle Research Institute.
     Lakshman, just picking up from where Christine was, we were told, we were told by politicians, we were told by Republicans and we have been told directly by small business owners, that government is in the way of them creating jobs and getting this economy going again.  
     Nothing changed in October.  The government didn't get out of the way in September, didn't get out of the way in October.  Nothing is different.  
     Why have we now seen 159,000 jobs created in the private sector?  
     LAKSHMAN ACHUTHAN, MANAGING DIRECTOR, ECONOMIC CYCLE RESEARCH INSTITUTE:  Well, because they had to hire those people.  We did not go into a recession.  
     Remember, not too long ago everybody was talking about double dip.  It's not that the companies don't have the cash, but they had a lack of confidence.  
     VELSHI:  Right.  
     ACHUTHAN:  They were afraid of a new downturn.  That hasn't happened.  All the incoming data has been saying this economy continues to expand, albeit too slowly.  
     VELSHI:  If -- you're saying that they had to hire because demand was up.  
     ACHUTHAN:  They were forced.  
     VELSHI:  Then why do we keep on thinking that the government is in the way of business, that its government that is stopping businesses from hiring?  Aren't businesses going to hire when they need more people to do the work to meet demand?  
     ACHUTHAN:  I think there are big policy decisions about the amount of government intervention with regulation and all these things.  These are the things politicians have been debating and that we are voting on.  
     I think there's probably a little bit of a false sense of control that you could switch a regulation and then the economy will do this or that.  It doesn't work that way.  The business cycle is so much more powerful than any of these regulations.  
     VELSHI:  Let's bring Karen Tumulty into the conversation.  She's a national political reporter for "The Washington Post." 
     Karen, good to see you.  
     This economy, in particular the lack of job creation, has cost the Democrats big.  It cost them in the midterms.  But a lot of people were saying we might be at some sort of a turning point in our recovery that may continue.  
     Who wins as a result of that in two years in the presidential election?  If right after the midterm elections all of a sudden the economy starts looking better, is that a Republican win or is that President Obama?  
     KAREN TUMULTY, NATIONAL POLITICAL REPORTER, "THE WASHINGTON POST":  Well, you can bet that everybody is going to claim credit for it.  
     I really do think that it's going to depend on how the two parties conduct themselves.  The fact is, if it starts looking like Washington is again able to get things done, that really does make everybody look better I think.  
     The Republicans are taking over Congress at a time when this institution is -- I think "reviled" is not too strong a word.  At this point, I think everyone has an interest in looking like they are actually getting some things done.  
     VELSHI:  All right, Christine, Lakshman, Karen, thanks very much. 
     There's a lot to talk about with this economy.  There's also something to talk about with respect to this president's trip to India.  How much is it costing taxpayers and is it going to be worth the money?  We'll tell you why it might be worth every penny when we come back.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     VELSHI:  Unemployment is at the same level that it was in September, 9.6 percent, but in October, the economy did grow by 151,000 jobs.  Still, there are almost 15 million people unemployed. Forty percent or more of those people have been unemployed for more than six months.  
     Work is hard to find.  There are all sorts of reasons for it.  As we see in the midterm elections, there have been all sorts of reasons why people say it's been hard to find.  But let me show you the big trends that are contributing to job loss in America.  
     This isn't about this recession.  This has been going on for 10 or 15 years.  Globalization, the one on your left, that is the big one.  The world is open for business.  Things are done where they can be done most cheaply and jobs are more movable.  That is why we've seen jobs lost to China, to India and to other countries.  
     Then there's technology.  We can do more with less because of technology.  It takes fewer people to build a car, design a bicycle, to build a home, everything it takes fewer people.  
     So the combination of globalization and technology has resulted in fewer jobs in America.  It has not resulted in fewer jobs in China or in India, because America has not found something to replace those low-value jobs that we've shipped to other places.       In some places, we've talked about China, that's the big one. Many of our manufacturing jobs have gone to China or the Far East. But India has taken a lot of those call center jobs and in some cases, some of the higher value software/engineering jobs that are in such great demand.  
     President Obama is in India right now.  Jobs at home are his priority.  Listen.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  On the trip that I'm about to take, I'm going to be talking about opening up additional markets in places like India, so that American businesses can sell more products abroad in order to create more jobs here at home.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     VELSHI:  Now sometimes we worry that we don't take a global enough view, Christine.  What I saw last week on TV was a number of people, Republicans in particular, criticizing the president's job like on two levels.  
     One is that, boy, this is a troubled time in America, why is he going on this long trip?  And the other one is this trip is expensive. I think the bill for it for taxpayers is going to be about $200 million.  Some have said it's a waste of money.  
     ROMANS:  In fact, the White House has said it will not be $200 million.  That is a gross exaggeration by Republicans.  Some Republicans have suggested it should be a conference call or a video conference for these sorts of meetings.  
     Bottom line here, there are some of the top business leaders in the world who will be going with the president.  This is a huge and potentially growing middle class in India that is incredibly important for American high technology product.  
     Also, another reason why this is incredibly important, not just for purely economic reasons but political and foreign policy reasons, Ali, because we need a bargaining chip in the region with an ascendant China.  We need to have the biggest democracy in the world to be very solidly tied in with American interest and American prospects going forward.  
     There's a lot of reasons why this is an incredibly important position and trip for the president to be taking here right now.  
     VELSHI:  Let's bring in Rutgers University Professor Bill Rogers, he was former chief economist with the U.S. Department of Labor.  
     Bill, you know, it's great.  We talk to you every time there's a jobs report.  It's great to have good news, but it is really a bit of good news, incremental?  Picking up on the conversation that Christine and I were just having, technology has eliminated some jobs, technology has eliminated other jobs, those aren't coming back.       What is likely to work for Americans who are long-term unemployed, work for the next five, ten, fifteen years, as India and China continue to do more of these jobs that we can't do competitively here in the U.S.? 
     PROF. BILL ROGERS, RUTGERS UNIVERSITY:  Along with the decline in jobs for those who still remain employed, the globalization plus technology has also contributed to stagnation or a slowdown in the earnings of many Americans and also a growing inequality.  
     The other piece that I want to comment on, too, is that talking with some of my colleagues in the AFL-CIO, they are finding that not only when the plant moves shortly thereafter you also end up seeing the folks adding that value here in the workplace.  
     So one of the things I think, particularly for younger individuals, our workforce development center, career technical areas of trade, that is very, very difficult.  I can't wrap my mind around it, how you would outsource a plumber?  How you would outsource an HVAC technician?  
     ROMANS:  You know, Ali, I want to jump in, because there is one really important point.  
     An important point, too, those low-value jobs happen on factory floors.  Factory floors are hotbeds of innovation, some of the best innovation from factory jobs.  It's moving to -- 
     VELSHI:  The whole operation.  
     Karen, what does President Obama do in India?  What could he possibly be saying -- could you send some jobs back?  
     By the way, if he said that, he said we had our software engineers in Silicon Valley.  You didn't like them.  You didn't like their visa.  
     What can President Obama do to tout jobs in America?  
     TUMULTY:  Well, one thing he can do and he is going to be talking a lot about is opening up the Indian market, because there's a lot of consumers in India.  
     As we were talking about what is likely to actually get done after this midterm election, one of the few areas where there is likely to be some common ground between President Obama and the Republicans who are coming into office is free trade, to the consternation, by the way of some in the Democratic base.  
     I think setting the tone and setting this idea that he's open to free trade, especially since there's some big trade agreements likely to come up in Congress next year, I think it is important.  
     ROGERS:  I'd also like to see more of this research and development-type tax credits.  Some work that we did in the previous recovery after the 2001 recession, we found that foreign direct investment flows really accelerated away from the United States.  That is, our European trade partners, their FTI was going to Asia. Companies here in the United States, theirs was also accelerating out. 
     We can utilize the incentive structure with regards to investment as a way to also minimize some of the loss and hopefully turn it into a net gain.  
     VELSHI:  And you know, Christine, Poppy Harlow was talking to some small business owners a couple of days ago after the election and they were saying the same thing, give us incentives to create jobs here in the United States and we will.  That's actually a good separate discussion that we should have.  
     Good point, Bill, thank you very much.  Bill Rogers, Karen Tumulty, thank you very much for joining us.  
     Christine, stick around, we have more to talk about.  The Federal Reserve is making a big bet that it says will help the economy recover.  We'll explain what the Fed is doing and if it can really work, and we'll talk about cruise ships at the same time.  Stay with us.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     VELSHI:  Can't get enough of this.  We've been talking about QE 2, it finally arrived this week.  It is not a boat, it is not a ship. It stands for the second round of quantitative easing, a term that I think is absolutely ridiculous, but I'm going to introduce you to two people in a moment that think it's quite appropriate.  
     This is the Federal Reserve announcing this past week that it is going to pump $600 billion into the economy.  That might be followed by another $200 billion or $300 billion a little later.  Over the course of the year, here is how it works.  
     That's the Fed on the left of your screen.  It buys bonds back from the banks and institutions it deals with.  Obviously, to can take the bonds back, you give them money.  So now the banks have more money and the hope is that they will lend it out to businesses and consumers.  
     Interest rates as you know are extremely low right now, but that's not helping because it's still hard to get loans, credit is still tight.  
     This is the equivalent of tight -- the opposite of tightening is easing.  This is called quantitative easing, that is why it is called QE 2.  And again, I think there was some really boring people that invented that name.  
     Let's talk about whether it is going to work.  Let's bring in Richard Quest host of CNN's "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS"; Pete Dominick, "JOHN KING USA" offbeat reporter and host of CNN "WHAT THE WEEK"; Christine Romans is with us as well.  
     Christine, first of all --      ROMANS:  It's not boring.  I love it.  Quantitative, it rolls right off, quantitative QE 2.  
     And the question, Ali, is will it be a luxury cruise liner coming into Manhattan or will it be the SS Minnow on a three-hour tour?  That is, what we want to know is how the Fed does this.  It could be the most important factor for whether you're going to get more jobs, more lending and business confidence next year if they do it correctly.  
     If it's not done correctly, there are worries about sky high- commodity prices, a very weak dollar, and inflation down the road. That could end up hurting consumers.  
     So the Fed chief very clear in an op-ed he laid it out and said this is going to work, don't worry.  We did it once before a couple years ago and it was appropriate.  This will be appropriate again.  
     VELSHI:  That was the first time, that was QE 1.  This is QE 2.  
     Richard, let's talk about this for a second.  In Great Britain, where you are, a conservative government was elected on a platform that said they are going to cut back, they are going to stop pushing money into the economy and they are going to have this austerity program.  
     Here in the United States we've just elected to the House of Representatives a conservative Republican majority who say, stop the spending, end the stimulus.  The Federal Reserve works outside of those rules.  This QE 2, this $600 billion does not need anybody's approval and it is going in there.  So it's running counter to what some people are thinking should be done.  
     RICHARD QUEST, HOST, "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS":  Listen, between the two of you, the economics is just all over the place.  For goodness sakes, guys, there are apples and oranges, pears and tangerines.  And what you have been talking about, firstly, the cuts in spending were to do with fiscal deficits that can no longer be run at that level.  
     Secondly, the quantitative easing that you're talking about is designed to push down interest rates by the purchase of bonds.  
     Thirdly, it's an untested, unknown, uncharted policy pretty much to do a second time around in the way the Fed is planning them.  
     And fourthly just to prove that there -- there's nothing easy about QE 1, 2, or any form.  It has huge international ramifications.  
     VELSHI:  China is very upset about it.  
     QUEST:  Of course, because you've got rock bottom interest rates in your country, so those dollars now flow to China, to Brazil, and to all those other countries that have got higher rates.  
     VELSHI:  Right, which makes their currency inflate in value verse the U.S. dollar.       PETE DOMINICK, HOST, "WHAT THE WEEK":  Richard Quest, guys, is obviously a lot more intelligent than I am on this and his British accent makes him sound that much smarter.  
     The first time I heard this phrase quantitative easing, to be honest with you, was the last time I was in my gastrologist's office. I agree with Ali that it is a weird term.  
     But let's take a look at it real quickly.  This is great.  This is classic Milton Freedman on this side, Thomas Kane is on this side. Let's get it together.  We always talk about inflation.  It's a bad thing, now apparently it's a good thing.  
     The other thing, they are printing money out of thin air.  But guys you answer this, not me, can't they also take money out of the stream?  Can't Ben Bernanke also burn some money, take it out of the stream to decrease that inflation?
     VELSHI:  It's a good question.  It's the only tools the Reserve has or central banks have, they can increase interest rates or they can decrease them.  Right now, they are trying to decrease them.  
     I'm with Pete, they need a better term and most people are confused about the economics of the whole thing, so I'm just running with the crowd.  
     Richard, Christine, Pete, stay right there.  Pete was just talking about inflation, largely not a concern but in some cases your food and your clothes, the prices of those could be going up.  Why now and what can he do about it?  
