
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired March 21, 2012 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Thanks very much.  Good evening, everyone.  We begin tonight with breaking news.  A major new development in the killing of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin in a gated community in Florida.  It's unfolding tonight as people here in New York put on hoodies like the one Trayvon was wearing and marched through the streets of Manhattan.  They want to know why a teenager armed with nothing deadlier than Skittles, iced tea and a cell phone is dead.  
But George Zimmerman, the neighborhood watch volunteer, who admittedly pursued, apparently confronted and fatally shot Trayvon, is a free man.  Trayvon's parents, Tracy Martin and Sybrina Fulton, are at the rally tonight.  
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRACY MARTIN, FATHER OF TRAYVON MARTIN:  Trayvon was your typical teenager.  Trayvon did the typical teenager things.  Trayvon was not -- and I repeat -- was not a bad person.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We know that.  
MARTIN:  George Zimmerman took Trayvon's life for nothing.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Nothing.  
MARTIN:  George Zimmerman took Trayvon's life profiling him.  My son did not deserve to die.  
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  We're going to -- I interviewed the parents earlier today. We'll play part of that interview tonight.  Now in a moment a Florida legislator who co-sponsored the law, who defends it but doubts George Zimmerman's claim he fired in self-defense.  Also something that may factor into a federal civil rights allegations that George Zimmerman uttered a racial slur while on the phone with 911.  Now we've enhanced the audio.  You can decide for yourself though.  We're going to play for you uncensored in a moment.  
But first, the breaking news which happened just moments ago in Sanford, Florida, where David Mattingly joins us now live.  David, Sanford city commissioner has passed a no confidence motion in the local police chief.  What exactly does that mean?  Does it mean anything?  
DAVID MATTINGLY, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Anderson, this was a no confidence vote.  They voted 3-2 in no confidence in the city's police chief, Bill Lee.  This is really a non-binding vote but it demonstrates to the police chief that he no longer has the support of the city commission here.  And what it is saying is that they're now going to be looking into more details.  They're not going to make a decision right away.  It doesn't mean that the chief is fired.  But they are going to be looking into -- deeply into his handling of this killing of Trayvon Martin.  
And the chief has only been in office less than a year now.  He does not have the support right now of the current mayor of the city, Jeff Triplett.  I watched the mayor earlier today as he was sitting side by side with leaders of the NAACP as people who live here were coming forward telling stories about how for years that they have had problems with the police force here.  
He said at that time that there's going to be a lot of work to do to correct some of these problems and tonight might have been the first step that he was talking about -- Anderson.  
COOPER:  David, let me ask you about the investigation.  Because are the local police there, and they've been criticized by the family of Trayvon Martin, obviously the attorney for that family, but are the local police there still investigating this or because the FBI and Justice Department are investigating, because there's going to be a grand jury, have they taken over the investigation?  Do we know?  
MATTINGLY:  The investigation itself is relatively over in terms of what the police are doing.  But it's still open in case something else comes up or someone else comes forward to give them more information. They are still leaving it open in that respect.  But they have turned everything over that they have for the state's attorney.  That state's attorney is looking at it and they're going to be calling a grand jury in April to look over the evidence they have to decide if they're going to come out with any charges with anyone involved in this case.  
COOPER:  All right, David Mattingly, I appreciate the breaking news update.  Thank you.  
Pressure has been building obviously on the local police there for days.  The questions, as David mentioned, center on how fully did police in Sanford, Florida, investigate George Zimmerman and his claim of self-defense in accordance with Florida's deadly force law or did they just take his word on it?  His family says the cops are covering up, the family --  
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MARTIN:  They're actually trying to sweep our son's death under the rug.  Trayvon was a person.  You know, he wasn't just a statistic.  He was loved by his family.  He was loved by his friends.  (END VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  They, the family, the protesters tonight, the NAACP and others believe the police took George Zimmerman's claim at face value and left it at that.  Now recall that Sanford police chief Bill Lee said before Florida and the Justice Department launched their own investigations, quote, "We don't have anything to dispute his claim of self-defense."  
Why wasn't Zimmerman tested for drugs or alcohol whereas the dead teenager, Trayvon Martin, was tested.  What if anything did police know about George Zimmerman's long record of phoning in nuisances and suspicious people, or his arrest in 2005 for scuffling with an undercover police officer?  He entered a pretrial diversion program allowing him to keep his record clean and that might have been missed. 
So what about Zimmerman's call to 911?  Now critics say his own words should have been evidence enough to form probable cause that he was pursuing Trayvon Martin and not acting in self-defense.  
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED 911 DISPATCHER:  Are you following him?  
GEORGE ZIMMERMAN, NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH MAN:  Yes.  
UNIDENTIFIED 911 DISPATCHER:  OK, we don't need you to do that.  
ZIMMERMAN:  OK.  
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  The final question centers on another phone call, one that was taking place literally at the same time between Trayvon and his girlfriend.  What if anything did police know about that?  Did they even check Trayvon's phone records or contact his girlfriend?  The Martin family attorney Benjamin Crump says they haven't spoke with her and ABC is reporting that she gave Crumb a sworn affidavit.  
She says this about her final conversation with Trayvon.  And I quote, "He said this man was watching him so he put his hoodie on, said he lost the man."  She went on to say, quote, "I asked Trayvon to run and he said he was going to walk fast.  I told him to run but he said he was not going to run."  She said the man caught up to Trayvon.  Quote, "Trayvon said, what are you following me for?  And the man said, what are you doing here?  Next thing I hear somebody pushing and somebody pushed Trayvon because the head set just fell."  
Now what if anything did police know about that account which would, in addition to the 911 call, seemed to cast some doubt on George Zimmerman's claim of self-defense.  Now that's just one of the many questions these marchers tonight have that Trayvon Martin's family certainly have and have had for weeks.  As you saw a moment ago Trayvon's parents, Tracy Martin and Sybrina Fulton, are here in New York tonight.  I spoke with them on my daytime syndicated program "Anderson" which the interview is going air on -- tomorrow.  Also two neighbors who were at the scene when Trayvon Martin was shot.  
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  The eyewitnesses have said they believe -- that some of them believe it was your son calling out for help.  No one saw him directly doing it or saw -- could say 100 percent for sure.  You've heard the 911 call where you hear somebody calling out help.  Do you believe that is your son's voice?  
SYBRINA FULTON, MOTHER OF TRAYVON MARTIN:  Yes, I do.  I believe that's Trayvon Martin.  That's my baby's voice.  Every mother knows their child.  And that's his voice.  
COOPER:  And the fact that -- if that's true and he called out for help, what does that tell you?  
MARTIN:  He was afraid for his life.  He saw his death coming.  He saw his death coming.  The screams got more franticer and at that -- at that second that we heard the shot, screams just completely stopped. He saw his death.  He was pleading for his life.  
COOPER:  So you're saying if it was Zimmerman who was screaming for help that might have continued after the shot.  But the fact that after the shot there was no more screaming for help.  
MARTIN:  No more screaming whatsoever.  It went completely silent.  
COOPER:  Whether you both went outside, you saw George Zimmerman in -- where and where was Trayvon Martin?  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  She was out the door first.  When I came out the door, I saw him basically straddling him.  He had, you know, feet on either side of his body.  And his hands at the time I didn't know was on his back.  And --  
COOPER:  Trayvon was face down?  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Trayvon was face down.  Once he got off the body, we could see that his face was down in the grass.  So at the time that he was holding his back, I didn't know if he was trying to help him, hold the wound or -- he was -- someone had asked him several times, three times, what's going on?  Is everything OK?  And each time he looked back but he didn't say anything until the third time he just said, just call the police.  
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  We're going to have that complete interview in my daytime show tomorrow.  
Last week George Zimmerman's father told the "Orlando Sentinel" the family is receiving death threats.  He calls claims that his son pursued Trayvon Martin, quote, "lies."  In the meantime, a long time friend, Frank Taaffe, is defending the George Zimmerman that he says he knows.  I spoke to him late yesterday.  
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  So Mr. Taaffe, you know George Zimmerman.  What is he like?  
FRANK TAAFFE, FRIEND OF GEORGE ZIMMERMAN:  George Zimmerman was a very congenial, amiable, admirable person.  He was very, very kind to everyone in our community.  And I really appreciated and so did the rest of our residence in our neighborhood that he stepped up and took over the position as neighborhood watch captain to insure the safety of all the residence in our community.  
COOPER:  You say he actually stopped a potential burglary at your house a couple of weeks ago before the shooting?  
TAAFFE:  That is correct.  
COOPER:  And were you surprised that he was carrying a gun?  Were you aware he would carry a gun?  
TAAFFE:  I was extremely shocked to the fact that he was carrying a gun, yes.  
COOPER:  What shocked you?  How did it shock you?  
TAAFFE:  The lethal weapon.  It wasn't George.  As I said, he was a very congenial, amiable man.  The use of a lethal weapon, a deadly lethal weapon as a .9 millimeter that he used was very shocking to me. It just didn't fit the -- it didn't fit the person.  
COOPER:  Had there been burglaries in your neighborhood?  Is -- what's the neighborhood like?  
TAAFFE:  I have lived at Twin Lakes since 2006, July, 2006.  In the last 15 months, Anderson, we have experienced eight burglaries, one which was perpetrated during the daylight hours.  Most, the majority of the perpetrators are young black males.  
COOPER:  And when -- I mean when you reflect on what's happened and what we know about and obviously a lot isn't known, what do you think? 
TAAFFE:  This is a perfect storm.  You had a neighborhood that was experiencing extremely high tension, anxiety, and with the burglaries, everybody was at -- pardon my phrase, we were at DEFCON 5.  
COOPER:  I guess, you know, a lot of people believe race played a factor in this.  From what you know about George Zimmerman, do you believe race played a factor?  
TAAFFE:  Absolutely not.  
COOPER:  Why do you feel so strongly about that?  
TAAFFE:  George is not a racist.  He was just performing his duties as watch captain, whether it be African-American, Latino, Asian or white. He would have done the same thing.  He would approach that person and just ask them what is your business here?  And if he just answered him in an appropriate manner, you know, I'm just here visiting, my mother's house is around the corner, and be up front and truthful, there wouldn't have been any problem.  
COOPER:  Well, Mr. Taaffe, I appreciate your perspective.  Thank you for being with us.  
TAAFFE:  Thank you, Anderson.  
(END VIDEO CLIP)
COOPER:  We're trying to get as many different perspectives of people in that community to you tonight.  
Let us know what you think.  We're on Facebook, Google Plus, follow me on Twitter, @Andersoncooper.  I'll be tweeting tonight.  
Much more ahead on the killing of Trayvon Martin.  New details.  Did George Zimmerman use a racial slur when he called 911?  We're going to play you the tape uncensored.  You can decide for yourself.  He says something under his breath.  A lot of people believe it is a racial slur.  We're going to play it for you.  You can determine.  
What's important about that, the reason we're doing that is because if it was a racial slur, that might allow the federal government to bring charges based on what was in George Zimmerman's head based on him saying a racial slur.  So it can -- it has a very important legal role and could really influence what role the federal government has moving forward in this.  So that's why we're going to play it for you.  
We're going to look at what role Florida's controversial "Stand Your Ground" law also played in the shooting death of a young husband and father, another case that's raised a lot of questions.  We'll be right back.  
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
COOPER:  We continue our "Keeping Them Honest" reporting on the Trayvon Martin killing.  The question of Florida's first in the nation deadly force law which takes away a duty for someone in jeopardy to retreat if possible and replaces it with a legal permission to stand your ground and use deadly force.  
Now nationwide 21 states now have "Stand Your Ground" laws.  Since passing of the law, violent crime in Florida has dropped but to be fair, it's also fallen nationwide.  More significantly, justifiable homicides as in the kind that George Zimmerman is claiming and the Martin family is disputing, those have spiked in Florida.  They more than doubled since the "Stand Your Ground" law passed in 2005.  
Randi Kaye has another story tonight of a life cut short and a case still under way.  Watch.  
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
RANDI KAYE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  When David James, an Iraq war veteran, escaped combat in the Middle East unscathed, his wife Kanina breathed a sigh of relief.  
KANINA JAMES, HUSBAND KILLED:  I would worry about him.  But I thought he would be safe here.  
KAYE:  She was wrong.  And now wants to know why Trevor Dooley, a 71- year-old retired bus driver, shot her husband in broad daylight right in front of their 8-year-old daughter.  Dooley says it was self- defense.  Kanina James calls it murder.  
JAMES:  What person brings a gun to a park when there's children?  I mean, he killed my husband.  He could have just talked to him.  
KAYE:  Whether or not Trevor Dooley fired in self-defense is at the heart of this case.  Also central to the story is Dooley's defense, Florida's "Stand Your Ground" law, which allows a person to stand their ground and use deadly force if they fear someone could seriously harm them.  
(On camera):  Here's what witnesses say happened on that September Sunday in 2010.  Forty-one-year-old David James was playing basketball with his daughter here when witnesses say Dooley who lived right across the street started yelling at a teenager who was skateboarding to get off the court.  That's when witnesses say James intervened.  
(Voice-over):  James yelled back to Dooley asking him to show where any signs said no skateboarding.  Dooley then crossed the street to the park to confront James.  A tennis player at the park, Michael Witt, testified things turned ugly when Dooley reached for his waistband.  Witt says James then lunged at Dooley.  The two men struggled on the ground before James was shot once through the heart. On the 911 call, Witt is heard trying to help.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Sir, can you hear me?  Sir, can you hear me?  Sir, can you hear me?  He's shot in the chest, ma'am.  
UNIDENTIFIED 911 DISPATCHER:  And he's not breathing?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  He's not breathing.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  Mr. Dooley, what do you want to say about what happened?  
TREVOR DOOLEY, SHOOTING SUSPECT:  No comment.  
KAYE:  Dooley tells a different story that contradicts the witnesses. He says when he took the gun out of his right front pocket James saw it and knocked him to the ground.  At a hearing to get the charges dismissed, Dooley testified, quote, "He was choking me to death." 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You agree you do not want to go to prison for killing David James, correct?  
DOOLEY:  I don't think I should.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes or no?  
DOOLEY:  No.  
KAYE (on camera):  Dooley's lawyer told us his client turned to walk away towards home and that James was the aggressor.  He said Dooley did pull a gun but didn't use it until he felt his life was threatened.  He says the charges against his client should be dropped given the "Stand Your Ground" law.  
(Voice-over):  Kanina James says her husband of 13 years had never been aggressive.  That he was a gentle family man.  She believes he was trying to protect himself and their daughter Danielle after he saw Dooley pull a gun.  
JAMES:  He loved Danielle so much.  That breaks my heart that Trevor Dooley took my daughter's best friend away from her.  She'll     never have her daddy.  
