
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired July 7, 2011 - 22:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Good evening, everyone.
     We're live from the Kennedy Space Center tonight.  Tomorrow morning, weather permitting, space shuttle Atlantis will lift off from launchpad 39-A, four astronauts on board, the final flight in America's shuttle program.  
     We say weather permitting because they have had a stormy few days here.  In fact, lightning struck twice near the pad today, no damage done.  And even though tomorrow's forecast calls for more of the same, there's a chance that skies may clear up just by launch time, 11:26 a.m., to light the candle.
     We will more on the mission later tonight.
     We begin though with breaking news from just up the road in Orlando, where Casey Anthony learned today she will be a free woman this time next week.  New insight tonight into how jurors reached their verdicts, the sequence of events inside the jury room and how their positions evolved during deliberations toward an acquittal on all serious charges.  
     It comes tonight from juror number two, who so far has declined to be identified.  "The St. Petersburg Times" reporting tonight that the jury first disposed of the four misdemeanor counts of lying to investigators.  Juror two calling it -- quote -- "a gimme."
     Then they turned to first degree murder, the charge that Casey deliberated -- deliberately murdered her daughter, Caylee.  The initial vote was 10-2 against.  Juror two telling the paper -- quote -- "We didn't know how she died.  Technically, we didn't even know where she died."
     He told "The Times" to him, it was aggravated manslaughter, believing Casey was guilty of culpable negligence.  And initially he said five others agreed.  He tells the paper the vote that on Tuesday was 6-6 on manslaughter.  He says the two sides hardened and arguing until the jury foreman calmed them down.  
     He says no one believed anything Casey's father, George, said on the stand.  But more crucially, juror number two says none of the jurors believed the state established whether the grandparents or Casey was in fact the child's caretaker when she died.  In other words, if it was murder, who did it, and if it was manslaughter, who was negligent in not reporting for 31 days after Caylee was last seen?     The paper reports that juror number two believed Casey should still have been held accountable.  He says he was the final holdout, but ultimately he agreed to vote not guilty.  
     New revelations too about defense attorney Cheney Mason, seen here kind of flipping off photographers on Tuesday while celebrating the verdict at a restaurant across from the courthouse.  Also that day you will remember he had some pretty choice words for the media and legal commentators.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     J. CHENEY MASON, DEFENSE ATTORNEY:  I hope that this is a lesson to those of you having indulged in media assassination for three years, bias, and prejudice, and incompetent talking heads saying what would be and how to be.  
     I'm disgusted by some of the lawyers that have done this.  And I can tell you that my colleagues from coast to coast and border to border have condemned this whole process of lawyers getting on television and talking about cases that they don't know a damn thing about it and don't have the experience to back up their words or the law to do it.  Now you have learned a lesson.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     COOPER:  Well, "Keeping Them Honest," though, on those talking heads Mr. Mason seems to hold in such low regard, he once was one of them in this very case before, and he got is wrong.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     MASON:  It could have been an accidental death, like we talked before and an improper disposal.  It could have been an outright brutal homicide.  We don't know.  They have no credibility whatsoever.
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  If it all plays out as many expect...
     MASON:  You can pretty well predict that there's going to be a life sentence.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  Well, "In Session" correspondent Jean Casarez spoke with Cheney Mason today.  She joins us now.
     Jean, the big question seems to be when Casey is released where is she going to go?  Did Mason give any kind of hints about that?  
     JEAN CASAREZ, TRUTV:  He said that plans are being made.  He would not tell me what they are.  But he is concerned for her safety. They all are.  They do realize the public opinion in this nation deems Casey Anthony may be one of the most hated women in America right now. So they are taking security precautions for her safety.  
     COOPER:  Yes.  I want to play some of what he said about their fears for her safety.  Let's listen.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     MASON:  Sure.  Yes.  Everybody around her knows they have to be concerned for her safety.  There's a lot of nuts out there that don't believe in the Constitution of the United States, don't believe in the jury system.  And all you have to do is go downstairs and on the sidewalk and you will see.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  He wouldn't say, though, what precautions they're taking to ensure her safety, right?  
     CASAREZ:  No.  He wouldn't even tell me where she's going to go. He does not think she can live in Orlando, Florida, or even the state of Florida, and wonders where in the United States she can become anonymous and just sort of blend into the society.  
     I think that is the critical issue right there.  He had mentioned possibly that she could go to his house with he and his wife.  Now he says that probably is not the likely scenario.  But even if it was, he said he would not tell.  
     COOPER:  Jean, one of the headlines that came out of this is that Casey is not going to have to report to her probation officer for the next year once she's released.  
     CASAREZ:  Everybody has been saying that Casey's going to be on probation for the next year.  Casey will not be on probation for the next year.  
     The check fraud case that she pleaded guilty to a year ago in January, that had a year of probation.  That was served from January 2010 to this January.  So that is done.  She will be a free woman next Wednesday.  And the reason it will be only six days is because of good time and gain time.  
     Gain time is actually time that someone who has been in protective custody 23 hours a day, they get even more time allotted for when they can get out.  So that is helping her.  Otherwise, it would be about a year from now.  
     COOPER:  You also asked Mason how he believed that Caylee Anthony died.  I just want to play that exchange.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     CASAREZ:  How did Caylee Anthony die?  
     MASON:  I know nothing different than what has been presented, is, she drowned in the pool.  And there's never been anything different than that.  
     CASAREZ:  Do you believe that?  
     MASON:  Yes.  I believe it.  And I have no reason to think otherwise.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  You say he left a little wiggle room in his response. How so?  
     CASAREZ:  Well, he said, that's what I have heard.  
     So I thought that was a little vacillating.  But yet he holds firm that that is what happened.  I asked him, though, the American people want answers.  They want to know.  And he told me he doesn't think the answers will ever come to the people of this country.  
     COOPER:  Jean Casarez, appreciate it.
     As we said at the top, Casey Anthony will go free next Wednesday. That was by no means clear when she appeared in court this morning, though, convicted of four counts of lying to investigators.  Nor was it clear what kind of crowds would gather outside the courthouse. Tonight, we know both those things, as well as some of the new financial liabilities that Anthony could be facing.  
     Martin Savidge has more on that and the sentencing hearing today. 
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
     MARTIN SAVIDGE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It was a very different-looking Casey Anthony who faced Judge Belvin Perry for sentencing, letting her hair down for the first time since the trial began, talking and smiling.  
     And there was a rare bit of humor as Judge Perry asked her attorneys if they still wanted to pursue that mistrial issue, something made pointless by Tuesday's dramatic verdict clearing Anthony of the charges that she abused and killed her 2-year-old daughter, Caylee.  
     JUDGE BELVIN PERRY, ORANGE COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT:  You had asked me to reserve ruling on your motion for mistrial.  
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We withdraw that, Your Honor.  
     PERRY:  OK.  That takes care of that.  
     SAVIDGE:  Then it was down to the business of sentencing Anthony for her four misdemeanor convictions of lying to police.  Her attorneys argued they should be reduced to just one, citing double jeopardy.  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Your Honor, before sentencing, we respectfully request the court address the violation of double jeopardy at issue with respect to counts five, six and seven.
     Because all four statements in the indictment arose during the July 16 interview between Detective Melich and Ms. Anthony, all four counts of providing false information to a law enforcement officer were one continuous criminal act with a single intent.  
     As such, each false statement separately charged violates double jeopardy and must be reduced to one conviction based on one occurrence and course of conduct.  
     SAVIDGE:  But Judge Perry disagreed, saying Anthony's lies sent authorities on four different wild goose chases.  
     PERRY:  As a result of those four separate and distinct lies, law enforcement expended a great deal of time, energy, and manpower looking for young Caylee Marie Anthony.  
     SAVIDGE:  And then came the judgment.  
     PERRY:  I will sentence you to one year in the Orange County jail, imposing a $1,000 fine on each count, all four counts to run consecutive to each other, giving you credit for the time that you have previously served.  
     SAVIDGE:  Realizing she wasn't going free today, the smile was gone from Casey's face.  And it would take the court the rest of the morning to do the complicated math of time served and good behavior to come up with a release date.  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  And, at this time, her release date has been calculated as July 13, 2011.  
     SAVIDGE:  Outside the courthouse, police were prepared for any possible reaction, beefing up security with deputies on horseback and a helicopter overhead.  The crowds may have been smaller than expected, but they reflected the huge debate that has raged on air and online since Tuesday's verdict.  
     UNIDENTIFIED PROTESTERS:  Caylee!  Caylee!    
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Boycott.  Nothing.  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Boycott.
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Buy no books, no movies.  
     SAVIDGE:  Anthony's legal troubles are far from over.  The state of Florida has filed a motion to bill her for what it calls special investigation and prosecution costs.  
     A woman who says Anthony falsely identified her as the nanny who kidnapped Caylee has filed a lawsuit.  And the rescue group Texas EquuSearch says it's considering suing Anthony for the more than $100,000 the group says it spent looking for Caylee.  All seem to be eyeing the money many expect Anthony could make from her newfound fame once she is free, which by the way will be almost exactly three years since Caylee was reported missing, July 15, 2008, by her frantic grandmother.  
     911 OPERATOR:  Nine-one-one.  What's your emergency?       CINDY ANTHONY, MOTHER OF CASEY ANTHONY:  Yes.  I found out my granddaughter has been taken.  She has been missing for a month.  Her mother finally admitted that she's been missing.  
     SAVIDGE:  The call that started it all.  
     (END VIDEOTAPE) 
     COOPER:  Martin, the judge in the case heard a controversial motion to unseal the names of the jurors involved.  What do you know about it?  
     SAVIDGE:  Well, you know, this is a debate that came up as a result of the news media.  And it was triggered as a result of the fact that the jury immediately after the trial declined to talk.  
     Now, that's their right.  They don't have to.  But of course, so much focus on the jury wanting to know how did you come up with the decision, the verdict that you did.  So the news organizations asked for the names.  The judge is not comfortable, because he says, look, there's been so much attention and so much anger, he's worried about their own safety.  So here's what he said: "I will give it a cooling- off period."
     So we may get the names in a week or so.  That remains to be seen -- Anderson.  
     COOPER:  All right, Martin, thanks.
     Again, two jurors have spoken out.  One wants to remain anonymous, but juror number three, Jennifer Ford, is speaking out on camera, telling ABC News why she voted to acquit.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     JENNIFER FORD, JUROR:  How did she die?  If you're going to charge someone with murder, don't you have to know how they killed someone or why they might have killed someone or have something where, when, why, how?  Those are important questions.  They were not answered.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     COOPER:  Joining us now, Marcia Clark, former Los Angeles deputy district attorney, O.J. Simpson prosecutor and author of the novel "Guilt by Association," also Casey Anthony's former defense lead attorney Andrea Lyon.  
     Well, Marcia, to that juror's question, do you have to know how somebody died and what the motive was in order to find them guilty?  
     MARCIA CLARK, FORMER PROSECUTOR:  No.  No, you don't.  No, you don't, Anderson.  
     The prosecution is required to prove all the elements of the crime.  That is all they're required to prove.  A motive is not an element of any crime.  You are not required to prove motive.  And neither are you required to prove cause of death.  
     As a matter of fact, there's many times when we have cases, homicides, that have no body.  I had a few of them myself.  And I had a jury return guilty verdicts on all of them, and one of them a first degree murder conviction.  When you have a no-body case, you don't have a cause of death.  You don't have a murder weapon.  You have none of those things.  
     Yet the juries were able to convict.  So, what she is saying basically is that she wants the prosecution to answer every single question that she can raise in her mind.  There's no possible way that any prosecution can do that.  And it sounds to me more like an excuse to vote not guilty.  
     COOPER:  Well, you heard that also from an alternative juror, Andrea.  Do you think that makes sense that they felt that the state didn't show -- because the state didn't show necessarily motive or in their opinion didn't show an absolute cause of death, that that was reason to find her not guilty?  
     ANDREA LYON, FORMER CASEY ANTHONY DEFENSE ATTORNEY:  Well, that's not what the jurors said.  What they said was that it was as likely that this was an accident and a cover-up as it was a murder, and if that was the case, then that means that there is reasonable doubt.  
     So this isn't like somebody saying, you know, maybe Martians captured her or some other crazy scenario.  They're saying that the evidence in front of them is at least in equipoise as to whether or not this was a homicide at all.  And if that's the case, you cannot convict somebody when you don't know if there's a crime.  
     The fact that people naturally want to know why someone does something -- and generally speaking -- I have to disagree with my colleague, Ms.  Clark -- most of the time the why is kind of apparent because of some former enmity or a robbery or whatever the motivation might be -- is a natural human thing.  
     But the jury's instructed that they do not have to -- the prosecution doesn't have to prove motive.  But they do have to prove murder.  And they didn't do that in this case.  And that's what the jurors were saying.  
     COOPER:  Marcia, the judge ordered the sentences for the misdemeanors to be served consecutively, not concurrently.  Even so, she's still going to get out next week.  Do you think the judge was trying to send a message today, basically doing what he could to give her the maximum penalty?  
     CLARK:  I don't think it was a message, so much as he's sentencing her appropriately given the conduct.  
     What she did in lying to the police for as long as she did and what she said really prevented the police from locating the body for quite some time.  And it had a very serious impact on the case.  And having -- he acknowledged the serious impact that the case -- that these lies had.  They sent the police off on a wild goose chase in many different directions and had -- it obstructed justice much and he sentenced her accordingly.  
