
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired October 1, 2011 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>ALI VELSHI, HOST:  Americans are counting on Washington to fix the economy, but public trust in the government is at an all-time low.
Welcome to YOUR MONEY.  I'm Ali Velshi.
Only 15 percent of Americans today say they trust the government to do what's right always or most of the time.  That's the lowest on record since 19 -- since the 1950s.
Robert Riech is a professor of Public Policy at University Of California Berkeley.  He's also the author of "After Shock, the Next Economy and America's Future."
Bob, good to see you.  Thank you for being us.  Well, talk about not trusting government.  You recently wrote that the Republican Party wants to keep the economy lousy through Election Day.
Let me ask you, if the president is really serious about fixing this economy, wouldn't he have drafted a jobs plan that he spoke about a few weeks ago that would be more likely to garner partisan support and get done?
PROF. ROBERT REICH, PUBLIC POLICY, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY: Well, the problem the president is facing I believe, Ali, is that the Republicans have said basically no to everything so far.  I think that they will agree to certain provisions, certain tax cuts in the president's plan, but it's going to be like pulling teeth for the president.
When I said that Republicans want a lousy economy on Election Day, I certainly didn't want to paint with too broad a brush.  It's not every Republican.  But undoubtedly the just say no policies of the Republican Party do tend to lead one to believe that a lot of Republicans wouldn't mind a bad economy on Election Day because that is almost a sure way to get rid of President Obama.
VELSHI:  There is a danger, though, with that.  This economy, which is shaky right now, takes another turn, another very clear turn downward, the next president of the United States, if it's not Barack Obama, is going to have a worse situation that they inherit that they might not be able to get out as easily. REICH:  Well, that is true.  But presidents, generally speaking, like to have a very bad economy at the beginning of their four years or their eight years because that usually means, given the business cycle that by the time their four years are up the economy is much better.
Now we may have a new normal.  That is after the great recession, it may be unemployment is going to stay up at 9 or 10 percent for a very long time.  That's absolutely right.  It is a great danger politically, but it's also a huge danger to the economy and to our society because I don't think that is sustainable socially.
VELSHI:  Right.  All right, Robert, hang on there.  Peter Morici is a professor at the University of Maryland School of Business.  Peter, economists surveyed by Bloomberg believe that President Obama's jobs plan not only reduces unemployment, but it would also keep the U.S. from sliding into a recession in 2012.
First of all, do you believe that?  Because if you do, that would be something we should all support.
PROF. PETER MORICI, UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND SCHOOL OF BUSINESS:  Well, I don't know how many jobs it will create.  It certainly will create some, but you know, providing the states with additional money to pay for school teachers while you subtract money on the health care side, so you trim Medicaid or Medicare in some way to pay for it doesn't help a great deal.
Where we really have a difference of opinion between the two parties is whether spending more will get us out or whether taming the budget deficit will get us out.  The Republicans were elected last time to tame the budget deficit.  So they see what the president is proposing is something that --
VELSHI:  Let me ask you this though.  You're right.  You're absolutely right.  That's what they got elected on.  That doesn't mean that's the answer.
MORICI:  Absolutely not.  Cutting the deficit right now would not be good medicine for the economy.  If they want to move forward, though, I think they will have to look outside the government for real stimulus.
The president's program may provide some.  But to really get the economy moving, they have to find a way to get to private sector spending.  For example, opening up more oil and gas development, which provides the same kind of spending that construction does.
VELSHI:  Bob, let me ask you this.  Most economists, most smart people sort of agree that raising tacks right now is probably not ideal.  But the taxes will have to be raised not only on the rich, but possibly the middle class down the road.
That maybe stimulus is not a bad idea right now.  Cutting deficits and budgets are going to be a better idea down the road.  Why is that not a normal part of the discourse coming from moderate Republicans and moderate Democrats?  Why are we having discussions on the extremes, particularly on the Republican side?
REICH:  Well, one problem, Ali, is we don't have many moderate Republicans.  All that many moderate Democrats, but certainly there are more moderate Democrats than abundant Republicans.
I mean, if we had a normal political dialogue right now, politicians would certainly be in sync with most of the economists and policy analysts would say right now don't cut the deficit.
Spend more.  Don't impose taxes.  Later on cut the deficit and impose taxes.  It's a sequencing thing, right now you want growth and jobs.
VELSHI:  That's a good point.  It is a sequencing thing.  Bob, good to see you.  Bob Reich is the former Labor Secretary, is now at the University of California Berkeley and the author of "Aftershock."
Peter, stay there.  I want to bring in Diane Swonk into the conversation.  She's the chief economist at Mesirow Financial.  Diane, when it comes to fixing the economy.  Tell me what you see as the biggest road block.
Because we like to blame gridlock in Washington, but we also often say that there's only so much influence that the government actually has over the economy, so what's really holding us back?
DIANE SWONK, CHIEF ECONOMIST, MESIROW FINANCIAL:  Well, we have over a trillion reasons to stimulate on corporate balance sheets.  We just validated the reasons for not using, redeploying those funds that they have been hoarding in the month of August and September because of the political gridlock and political malfunction we've seen.
So although I don't think government is the only solution, it can certainly help on the margin one direction or the other.  When your economy is only growing marginally and you got a crisis of confidence, it certainly can play a major role.
In the larger debate about stimulus versus austerity, if we had a credible plan where we had vision going forward on what the deficit and austerity plan would look like over the next 10 to 15 years, a credible plan, we knew what our potholes were, businesses can deal with that.
As long as they knew where the potholes, where the changes in tax code, what the changes in spending coming, so could households, and then that would free up in the near term some room for some of the stimulus debate that we're also talking about.
The rush to cut and offset any spending increase or any tax cut immediately with spending cuts is really dysfunctional.  The gridlock in Washington is having a much outsized effect because the economy is growing so marginal.
VELSHI:  So the work needs to be done to fix this economy outside of Washington in the private sector.  But the idea there is a road map, there is some destination and there are some agreement as to how to get there is the thing that is going to help businesses make those decisions to employ people.
So ultimately the gridlock you're saying, Diane, is a large part of the problem.  Peter Morici, what's the logical fix to that?  Do we have to wait for 14 months for an election to finally have the people somehow send the message that you guys have to get something done in Washington?
Are we still going to see this reactionary politics that plays its way all the way down to the voter who now is going to vote on choices that affect them personally?
MORICI:  The fact of the matter is we're going to see marginal action on the president's plan.  Even the Democrats in the Senate are putting it off.  My feeling is there will be a package.  It won't be nearly as comprehensive as the president likes.
But a basic problem we have is that when the Republicans win, they think they should get everything their way and the Democrats think they should obstruct.  When the Democrats win, they think they should get everything their way and Republicans think they should obstruct.
The reality is folks do want government -- Americans are moderate. They want solutions in the middle.  Until politicians are willing to do that, we're going to have this seesawing in elections.  I mean, that's all there is to it and we're going to be a country divided.
But I think there are real solutions to getting the private sector going.  We haven't had a clear vision from the White House how to do that beyond stimulus.  And frankly on the Republican side, cutting taxes and deregulating doesn't warm me up.
VELSHI:  All right, we're going to talk about solutions.  You just mentioned solutions so Diane and Peter stick around because the solution we need is unemployment.  We're going to talk solutions right after we come back.  You're watching YOUR MONEY.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
VELSHI:  I promised you we talk solutions.  Let's talk solutions.  One of them that we keep on hearing is tax reform.  Do we need tax reform to see economic growth and subsequently job creation?
Senator Pat Toomey who's a Republican member of Congress, he is on the "Super Committee" and he's charged with reducing deficits.  He thinks tax reform is the answer.  Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SENATOR PAT TOOMEY (R), PENNSYLVANIA:  This is the most pro-growth thing we can do is to fundamentally reform our tax code.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
VELSHI:  Peter Morici, is he right?
MORICI:  It's important.  The corporate tax is too high in the United States.  There are too many loopholes.  A lower corporate rate with fewer exclusions and loopholes would be beneficial.
But America fundamentally is held back by a lack of demand due to credit overhang from the housing crisis and the debt people have and the trade deficit and so forth.  Those are largely problems that need fixing in the private sector that requires public initiative to get there.
I'm not hearing that from the White House.  Frankly, I'm not hearing a lot of that from the Republican candidates as well.
VELSHI:  Diane, you know, this is going to become a catchphrase for many, many months.  We've heard it about comprehensive tax reform.  I mean, as Peter says American corporate taxes are high, but a lot of Americans believe that on balance a lot of companies don't pay taxes so we've got those loopholes.
Corporate tax reform could mean different things to different people. We know that the president wants to expand the payroll tax cut, which he says is going to save the average American family about $1,500 a year.
Now, from an economists' perspective, how direct is the link between tax cuts like that one or others, and job creation?
SWONK:  Well, the issue on the payroll tax cut is if you don't extend it, it would actually be a payroll tax increase for Americans at a very fragile time for the U.S. economy.  So It is one of the things that would affect demand issues.
The problem with tax cuts right now is that we're not sure how many Americans especially at the wealthiest level would save or use that to restructure their debt rather than spend.  So it gets back to the demand issues that Peter is referring to that I think are very important.
I do believe in fundamental tax reform.  I do think we need to dramatically change the behavior distorting deductions, lower the tax rates, broaden the base, and do a lot of changes to the corporate tax rate as well as personal tax rates.
But that is not our single issue, I agree with Peter on that.  That there are much larger issues and the biggest issue out there is you cannot move forward on the economy until we heal from the fundamental thing that got us here, and that was the housing market bubble and bust.
VELSHI:  All right, that's still sometime away.
SWONK:  Yes, it's still sometime, but there is some opportunity for changes in policy that can help accelerate our process through that that we're not doing at all.
VELSHI:  All right, let's talk about this for a second.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke referred to unemployment as a national crisis this week. Peter, would you say this is the time for, you know, infrastructure projects?  What's the kind of stuff that we should be doing if it's not just fundamental tax reform to get things going?
MORICI:  Well, infrastructure projects are a bridge to the future. They give you a temporary boost in employment.  But to get us going, we need to do something about the debt that people have.  You know, we have helped out the banks.  We need to start to restructure these mortgages.
Frankly, we need to start writing down some debt by perhaps making the banks partners in the houses where people are underwater so they can refinance.  We really do need to develop more domestic energy.  It's great to develop alternative vehicles, electric vehicles and al that but they are not going to solve energy dependence right away.
We have a lot of oil and gas.  We're going to be using oil and gas we need to develop that now.  There's the trade deficit issue with China that needs to be resolved.  There's the issue of regulation on Wall Street.  We've added to the cost, but I don't think we've solved the problem.  There's got to be a more effective and efficient way to get that done.
VELSHI:  But ultimately as you and Diane both point out, sure, there are things holding businesses back, creating uncertainty and not permitting them to hire.  The other side of that equation as you just eluded to, Diane, is demand.
OK, so the $1,500 that President Obama says the tax cut -- the payroll tax cut is going to give people, ultimately we need something that is going to cause people to say I need to pay down my household debt.  I need to get my debt situation under control and I need to spend enough to create demand.  What's that sweet spot?
SWONK:  There is no -- we've been saying this for ages, Ali.  If there is a silver bullet, it would have been shot already.  We're still working through this process, but I do think Peter makes some important points about the changes, what we could do to move forward, the correction in housing.
And to get through that process, you know, the foreclosure.  We've not changed foreclosure laws yet.  You know, this is a major problem in the United States.  I think they take your first child in Sweden if you don't make your payment on your mortgage.  That's an exaggeration, of course.
But, you know, the reality is we don't have the kind of recourse here. We have to change the incentive structure.  We've got to heal and do it more productively.  I also agree that, you know, regulations just thrown sort of, you know, without a lot of thought behind them.
We have not consolidated regulatory agencies.  There's going to be a huge surge in SEC filings for hedge funds.  They are not staffed for that.  I hardly see anyone spending money to have the SEC be the hire of last resort, to staff up, to deal with those increasing fillings from hedge funds and trying to deal with the regulatory issues. That they have to deal with there so we've got a lot of things that are just mismatched in this economy that we need to think more holistically about the consequences of.
VELSHI:  Think holistically about the consequences.  Peter, that's not exactly what I think about when I think about what Congress is up to these days.  Thanks to both of you.
SWONK:  Congress doesn't do that.
VELSHI:  One of these days we'll just have the two of you making decisions.  That will help us out a lot.  Diane Swonk is the chief economist at Mesirow Financial and Peter Morici is a professor at the University of Maryland School of Business.  Good to see both of you.
All right, let's talk about what some people think is a solution, can Chris Christie, the governor of New Jersey save the Republican Party and the American economy?  We'll check it out next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
VELSHI:  Welcome back to YOUR MONEY.
The "Chris Christie is going to run for president" speculation does not seem to be dying even though the New Jersey governor has said several different ways he won't be running.
Our friend Stephen Moore is an editorial writer with the "Wall Street Journal."  Stephen, what is the fascination with Chris Christie?  He's fiscal conservative, we get that part.  He's made major budget cuts in New Jersey.
Not entirely loved in his home state for making those moves.  But the idea he's a budget slasher, is that what's appealing to you conservatives?
STEPHEN MOORE, EDITORIAL WRITER, WALL STREET JOURNAL:  Well, Ali, you know, it's sort of like remember when you were a teenager and you went out on a date and you said, well, not this one and another date, not this one.  I think that's a little of the problem right now for Republicans.
They are not enthralled with the currents choices.  So there is a lot of fascination with other choices.  The one I hereby far the most is Chris Christie.  In addition to the things that you said about him, look, I think that he has a couple of characteristics that are very appealing to conservatives.
By the way, he's not as conservative as Ronald Reagan by any means, but number one is his toughness.  The fact that he kind of a plain spoken, that he stood up for fiscal responsibility, is something conservatives would really like to see with this $1.2 trillion deficit.
The other issue about Chris Christie is, you know, I've been around politicians for 25 years, Ali, and I would say he's a political phenomenon.  He has a special gift of communicating with people that's very much like Ronald Reagan or Bill Clinton.  I think he's of that caliber and that's what Republicans are looking for.
VELSHI:  He's unvarnished in some ways, which is very appealing.  In the current Republican race, those candidates who are unvarnished somehow say things that are a little shocking.  Those who are a little too varnished don't say the things that are necessarily so appealing.
So he lives in that middle ground as, Stephen, do a lot of people who haven't either won a presidential race or haven't committed to running.  It's always different when somebody is signed in.
Let's bring in our good friend, Joe Nocera, "New York Times" columnist.  Joe, Chris Christie has got fiscal conservative credentials, socially, he's relatively moderate.  He doesn't wear his religion on his sleeve.  Used to be pro-choice, he flip-flopped when his wife was pregnant.
He's for civil unions.  He's for gay people though against gay marriage.  He's got no foreign policy experience.  Is this economy so bad that budget slashing and deficit reduction is the kind of stuff that trumps everything else?
JOE NOCERA, COLUMNIST, "THE NEW YORK TIME":  It may well be.  We're in a process right now where the country is basically coming to the conclusion, urged on by the Tea Party and most conservative elements in the Republican Party that the thing that matters most is deficit reduction, cutting government spending and you know, reforming entitlements.
Whether they are right or wrong, it has become the preeminent issue with the possible exception of jobs.  So here you have a generally blunt spoken governor who has done exactly that in his home state without fear or favor.
The fight as always in any presidential election is for the independents.  The independents have now turned against Obama largely. They are looking for a candidate.  They are not going to find Rick Perry appealing or certainly not Michele Bachmann.  But they could well find Chris Christie appealing.
VELSHI:  More so than Romney.
NOCERA:  Well, you know, Romney is the default candidate.  I mean, they are looking for somebody else to fall in love with.  Romney has been around for a while.  People don't feel like they are going to fall in love with him.  They are going to grudgingly accept him as their nominee if it comes to that, but in the meantime, you know, it is, it's first date time.
VELSHI:  Are Democrats worried about Chris Christie getting in this race?  Should they be worried about Chris Christie getting in the race and doing what Joe Nocera says, starting to appeal to those moderate independents who Barack Obama used to appeal to?
MOORE:  Yes, look, I think one of the things that's interesting about Chris Christie, in addition to the things that Joe was saying, is that if you listen to the speech that he gave this week at the Reagan Library, he talked about solving problems, you know.
He said, look, we solved problems in New Jersey that haven't been solved in Washington.  That's a very practical message.  It's not a conservative message.  It's a practical message.  Don't forget one other quick thing about him.  He represents a blue state.  If Republicans can win in a place like New Jersey, they can win anywhere.
VELSHI:  He did bring that point up, Joe.  He said we have made -- in New Jersey we have made divided government work, because so many Americans right now think that the whole concept of divided government is one that can't work.  What we used to think fantastic about checks and balances now seems to be coming back and biting us in the ankles.
NOCERA:  Well, Americans right now find the idea of a pragmatist very appealing because pragmatism is exactly what is not happening in Washington today.  Now the question of whether Chris Christie could go to Washington and be a pragmatist just as Obama thought he could go to Washington and bridge the partisan gap, you know, certainly remains to be seen.
You know, running a state, creating consensus in a state, in a state where every state by law has to balance their budget, it's a very different ball game.  By the way, I think Chris Christie is doing the right thing kind of staying away from this and saying -- I know he made speeches lately that made him appear more presidential.
But the fact of the matter he hasn't been governor very long.  You know, there is a question, in my mind at least, whether he's jumping in before he's really ready for prime time.
