
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired November 12, 2011 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>ALI VELSHI, CNN ANCHOR:  America's economic future is uncertain.  The crisis threatening it is on the other side of the world.  Welcome to YOUR MONEY.  I'm Ali Velshi.
Concerns over Italy soaring debt and borrowing cost this week are the latest chapter in the European crisis that is threatening the global economy and certainly the economic recovery in the United States.
Stephen Moore is an editorial writer at the "Wall Street Journal," Chrystia Freeland is an editor at Thompson Reuters Digital and Rana Foroohar is assistant managing editor at "Time."
Stephen, let's start with you.  We know that Europe's debt crisis has a very direct impact on the U.S. economy.  So with Europe's future still uncertain, how much influence do Americans, does Congress and President Obama have on what's really happening around the world right now?
STEPHEN MOORE, EDITORIAL WRITER, "THE WALL STREET JOURNAL":  Not so much.  Look, a lot of people probably wondering how can a small country like Greece and a little bit bigger country like Italy throw the entire globally economy into this turmoil right now.
I think the answer is it's the first domino to fall and there's a real threat that you're going to get a kind of contagion effect.  Where you know, if Italy falls we're now seeing their interest rates rise on their bonds.
That this will affect other countries like Portugal and Spain and maybe even France and Germany.  That's where the interconnection comes in.  The United States, the banking system here is very interconnected with what's happening in Europe.
VELSHI:  Let's explore the contagion for a minute with Chrystia.  If I get the flu shot and you get the flu, I'm not getting it from you.  So the issue of contagion depends on -- it's based on the fact that other countries do not have the back stops or the ability to prevent what is happening in Greece and Italy.  Is that what we're worried about that this could really spread?
CHRYSTIA FREELAND, EDITOR, THOMSON REUTERS DIGITAL:  Yes, absolutely. It's worse than your flu shot analogy would suggest, Ali because as it were -- you know, the European countries are all living in the same family and eating the same food from the same bowl.  That is the euro.
VELSHI:  You're worried if it does get out of hand -- we don't know if we're there yet, but if it did get out of hand, you're saying the impact would be substantially greater on credit and capital flaws than Lehman Brothers.
FREELAND:  Absolutely, I interviewed George Soros this week and he's a guy who knows a little bit about currency and currency crisis and he's in Europe right now.
And he said to me this could absolutely be worse than Lehman because the truth is although we're still suffering the after affects of the Lehman crisis, the rescue happened.  The rescue worked, financial markets were restored.
I think the real nightmare scenario we're looking at in Europe is what happens if there is a disorderly collapse of the euro, of the euro currency.  The really scary thing is that was the currency that was designed kind of like a roach motel.
You could go in, but there was a never a system designed for countries to go out.  That was on purpose.  The architects of the euro wanted it to be the first step towards closer political union.
So they didn't create an escape clause.  There's no way to get divorced.  But yet, right now, the members of the euro, the strong countries that Stephen referred to, France and especially Germany, they have to decide now, are they willing to pay up.
VELSHI:  They might be interested in a divorce.  Let's bring this into perspective because I still hear it after all the reporting that all of us have done on this, I still hear people say how is Greece, which is the 32nd largest economy in the world.
And it's not been central to these kind of affairs in over 2,000 years, how is it that important and why is Italy -- obviously we kind of get why Italy is more important.  But let's have the argument one more time.
RANA FOROOHAR, ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR, TIME:  Well, I think Greece was important not economically in the absolute sense, but because of underlying these incredible political problems within the European Union.
Greece showed that the European Union was not a proper political union, but a rather selfish economic union.  When times got tough, people weren't willing to come together to back each other up.  You saw these differences between the rich countries and the poor countries.
And the hardworking Germans and Greeks, and you know, these are generalizations, but they're meaningful.  I think Italy, of course, is an entirely different story.
Italy is the world's third largest bond market and actually, I spoke with Mohamed El-Erian, the head of PIMCO this week who's the world's largest bond trader and he agrees with George Soros that Italy can be worse than Lehman.  It's a big deal.
VELSHI:  You call it the most dangerous country in the world.
MOORE:  Can I bring this back to the root cause?  Because I read so many stories about this, what's the big problem in Europe?  In my opinion is that they have built up these incredibly large overly generous entitlement programs that they are incapable of reining back in.
VELSHI:  In a vacuum, that would be fine.  We don't live in a vacuum. We here in the United States think we're not competitive with Asia. Europe is less competitive.
MOORE:  You know what?  That's the big problem for Europe right now. I mean, let's -- I'm going to get a lot of hate mail for saying this, but the Europeans are kind of lazy, right?  And the Asians right now are eating their lunch.
FREELAND:  I would like to push back against Stephen's analysis, right?  Actually Germany, which has very generous entitlement programs is incredibly productive, a much more successful exporter than the U.S. actually a more successful export-led economy than China.
Sweden, another country, which has very generous entitlements is not suffering a crisis.  The countries in Europe, which have slashed their government spending, really drastically, countries like Ireland, actually have not have the markets say hurrah.
The markets had said you're chilling your economy.  Hang on, final point.  The real European crisis is not at the moment a structural one.  It is that countries are issuing debt in a currency they don't control.  If you control the printing press --
MOORE:  I don't agree with that.
FREELAND:  You're never going to have a sovereign debt crisis.
MOORE:  It's the fact they can't control their spending and there's no hope of controlling their spending.
FOROOHAR:  I think actually there's a lot of similarity between the problems on both sides of the Atlantic.  You've got rich countries that are in debt and they still have to grow.  That's pretty impossible.
VELSHI:  But however, let's go back to the people who are coming out of the woodwork now saying 10 years ago, I warned you or five years ago, I warned you about the euro.
I probably -- I'm going to put it out here that I don't know that the Euro was the problem, but they didn't create a super structure.  So you said, the problem is there is no divorce mechanism.
I'm saying, they never really built a house.  They created common currency, didn't come up with a way so you always get these pronouncements from the E.U., but nobody has power to tell anybody -- FOROOHAR:  There is no Hank Paulson of Europe.
FREELAND:  And there's no Ben Bernanke, right?  So in order to have a currency that works, you need to have a central bank, which is the creditor of last resort.
What we are finding in Europe is the ECB is not allowed to do that. That's their big question.  You know, this crisis could end tomorrow if the Germans and the French agreed that the ECB could provide unlimited backstop.
FOROOHAR:  But they would have to get over --
FREELAND:  Of course, they would, but that's why I'm saying it's fundamentally -- that's why it is fundamentally a political crisis.
VELSHI:  Rana after it was Greece, it became Italy, and it could -- can go back to Portugal and Spain.  It's going to keep buzzing around. Nobody wants to bail anybody else's banks out.  Here in America, we don't want to bail our own banks out.
FOROOHAR:  Absolutely not.  And I think going back to this point about why not let the ECB just print money.  Well, that goes to deep European fears about hyperinflation.  There's really deep sort of psychological stuff going on here that's hindering efforts.
VELSHI:  One other thing, if you are Greek and you have been under this austerity program for sometime already because all these European countries have been cutting back.
Your economy is already recessionary or if not close to it in many places in Europe.  Now you're asked to do more to save bankers in another country or investors in another country.  This is unappealing for everybody involved.
FREELAND:  You have the Greeks running a primary -- Greek actually now -- not today.  Greece today is on the verge of running a primary surplus.  That is, if Greece defaulted on its debts, were not going to pay, their current budget is on the verge of surplus.  And that's why you're starting to hear some Greeks say let's forget about Europe --
MOORE:  Italy is at the forefront of this.  The problem with Italy is partly demographic.  They have thse huge entitlement programs.  You know what?  The birth rate is 1.2 per married couple.  So they've got all these people retiring and there are no kids.
VELSHI:  OK, Rana, Chrystia, Stephen, stay where you are.  Normally mild mannered Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, well, he came out swinging at Republicans this week in an exclusive interview with CNN. Stephen Moore is going to get his chance to swing back next on YOUR MONEY.  Stay with us.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
VELSHI:  This was a week in the United States where a lot of the political discourse was focused on anything, but economic issues, whether it was Rick Perry's memory lapse or the continued accusations of sexual harassment against Herman Cain.
Chrystia, is there a chance, and I'm hoping not despite everything else, is there a chance that this election could turn on things that are not economic.
Even though for three years now the voters of America have said the economy is their number one concern.  We are spending a lot of time on things that are not about the economy.
FREELAND:  Yes, but it's 2011, not 2012.  I think that when push comes to shove, people are going to focus on what really matters.  I have a lot of faith in American voters.
Look, I think these other issues.  They are easier to think about. They are more fun.  They also are less scary, actually.  They are about other people making mistakes.
VELSHI:  When I was at the G-20, I said, you know, Herman Cain fascinating though he is and his story is can't wreck the world, Greece could.
FREELAND:  Right and also, you know, talking about euro bonds and exactly how the ECB should average, the ESSF.  I mean, this is not that fun.
VELSHI:  But you know, Stephen, you conservatives take some of the credit or blame for making this such a big issue, for making Americans understand that the economy and debt and things like that are serious.
It's also you conservatives are derailing the conversation with everything that's been going on this week.  For guys like you --- it's your presidential candidates who are diverting the conversation.
I mean, as a conservative, who in the Republican race is keeping this conversation as focused as they should be?  Whether you agree with them idea logically or not, I feel like it's Huntsman, it's Gingrich, Romney we haven't heard a lot from.
MOORE:  But, look, I mean, there's no question the last week or two have been bad for Republicans because all the talk has been about Herman Cain's sexual harassment allegations when they want to be talking about the economy, tax reform and so on.
But this is, look, this is a celebrity culture.  It's amazing to me that 90 percent more people know who Joe Paterno is than better than Ben Bernanke.  So this is part of the problem.
I mean, you turn on TV, nobody is talking about the economy right now. They are not talking about Herman Cain's sexual allegations, Joe Paterno and all those things.  And I think it's too bad because we really should be focused --
VELSHI:  I'm hoping Chrystia is right.  It's 2011.  We have some time to go.  In an exclusive interview with CNN's chief White House correspondent, Jessica Yellin, Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner came out swinging against Republicans.  Listen. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TIMOTHY GEITHNER, TREASURY SECRETARY:  Unless Republicans are willing to do more things for the economy right now then unemployment will stay too high, won't come down fast enough, growth will be weaker. That's just a basic reality.  It's not a political statement just basic reality.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
VELSHI:  Stephen, have Republicans reached a point where they have more to gain in November 2011 by stalling, by not having this economy improve dramatically in the next year so that they win the election?
MOORE:  Well, certainly, I mean, a weak economy is going to help Republicans win the White House, but I think that's an unfair allegation.  What's the big thing going on in Washington right now?
It's the "Super Committee."  Guess who is not represented at the table there, who actually wants the "Super Committee" to fail?  That's Barack Obama.  The reason he does is because he wants this narrative for the election season that the Republican Congress is --
VELSHI:  Isn't that too dangerous?
MOORE:  I think it's dangerous.
VELSHI:  You believe the president wants the risk of these automatic cuts that come in that will cripple this economy?
MOORE:  The Republicans I've talked to in that committee and even some of the Democrats say Obama has not been represented.  He has no interest in seeing this succeed.
VELSHI:  Chrystia, what do you think?
FREELAND:  I don't agree.  I mean, I think it's very clear what's going on right now.  Stephen is right.  The Republicans don't have an interest in the economy getting better.
MOORE:  I didn't say that.
FREELAND:  Right now.  Right now, but I don't we shouldn't blame them for that, right?  You know, politics is an oppositional race.  I think it's perfectly fair and justified for them to say we don't believe in your policies and we're not going to help you execute them.  That's not their job.
VELSHI:  The danger is that it feels like everybody in Washington got sprayed by the same skunk.  If this economy gets worse, they are going to smell exactly the same.
FOROOHAR:  I think so.  I want to start by saying I don't think anything ever happened in the "Super Committee" and I don't expect anything to happen there.  It's really all about jobs. It is all about the economy.  It will continue to be.  That's why Europe matters.  If Europe goes into recession, will that push the U.S. into a recession?  That's why "Occupy Wall Street" matters because it's all about jobs.  It's about the end of the American dream, feeling you can do better than your parents.  So I think that will be the focus.
MOORE:  The gridlock is dangerous for both sides because what you could have in November 2012 is throw all the bums out.
FREELAND:  Except someone does have to win.  You know, ultimately, there will be someone who is the president.  So it's not a case where everybody can lose, one person will be elected president, either Barack Obama or --
VELSHI:  I don't want a partisan judgment.  I ask you as financial journalist, both of you actually, because we know where he stands.  Is there someone who stands out as making sense to you in this race regardless of their politics or the likelihood that they might win?
FREELAND:  I truly think that it's impossible to give a purely technocratic answer to that.  I think in the Republican field, you know, the technocrats will say Mitt Romney and Jon Huntsman are that guys who makes the most sense on the economy.  I think that Barack Obama and Tim Geithner are pretty strong economic team.
FOROOHAR:  I agree Romney is sounding better than he did four years ago.  He's sounding less like a salesman.  That's a good thing for him.
But I think ultimately we haven't seen a real coherent what are we going to do about jobs plan from either candidate.  Obama is trying, but he keeps getting gridlocked.  So whoever can do that is going to be the winner.
VELSHI:  But Stephen, if Europe fails or gets worse than it is now, what are we going to do about jobs plan suffers greatly.
MOORE:  It affects the U.S. economy.  We're in a global economy right now.  Look, I do want the economy to get better.  I think jobs are number one.  I just think there's a complete ideological difference now.
Republicans say they don't want to raise taxes.  I think they're right about that, but I do hope they get an agreement on the "Super Committee."  Look, if we can't cut the first trillion dollars out of this debt, how are we going to get to the next $9 trillion?
VELSHI:  Well, we're going to talk a little bit more later in the show about the "Super Committee," but there has been some movement.  Pat Toomey, the least guy I've expected to do it is actually responsible for some of it.
So let's see where we're going.  Europe's debt crisis is partially, in fact, may be more than partially America's problem.  What the economic crisis across the ocean means specifically for your investments and your job search coming up next.  Stay with us.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
VELSHI:  As I told you before the break, Europe's debt crisis has real implications for your job and for your investments here in the United States.
Our good friend CNNMoney.com's Poppy Harlow joins us now with another of our good friends, Jim Awad.  He's the managing director at Zephyr Management.  Poppy, take it away.  All eyes were on Italy this week, but what does that mean to us?
POPPY HARLOW, CNNMONEY.COM CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, we started the week out looking at Greece now.  It's all about Italy exactly.  Jim, we're going to break down for people why they should care so much about Italy.
I'm going to pull away some of these countries in Europe, all the highlighted countries are sorted on the periphery where we're concerned about a debt crisis.  Take a look at Italy.  You've got $2.2 trillion economy, seven times bigger than Greece.
The fear now is the lack of confidence and the ability for that country to pull back from a debt to GDP ratio of 120 percent, which is clearly unsustainable.
So first scenario, if we have Italy implement austerity measures and the market believes it, then what happens to jobs in the United States?  What does that mean?
JIM AWAD, ZEPHYR MANAGEMENT:  Well, that's good news.  It means that Europe will not pull us down.  We'll continue to grow in the United States, not as fast as we want, but we'll continue to grow.  Employers will add jobs and you will have a gradual decline in the unemployment rate say from 9 percent now to about 8.5 percent in a year.
HARLOW:  Not enough in terms of creating jobs in the country.  But investments, people that have exposure through their 401(k), et cetera to Europe, what should they be doing in terms of the equity market right now, in terms of their bonds?  What should they be doing to protect themselves?
