
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired July 31, 2011 - 12:03 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     GLORIA BORGER, CNN ANCHOR:  And we are breaking away from that interview with Senator Mitch McConnell to listen to the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid.  Actions are moving so quickly today. Let's listen to what he says about the vote, the upcoming vote.  
     SEN. HARRY REID (D-NEV.), MAJORITY LEADER:  ... weren't asking about military strategy or how a troop drawdown in Afghanistan would affect them.  No.  They asked whether they would get paid if the Republicans forced the United States government to stop paying its bills.  
     In a region that has been rocked by violence and plagued by suicide bombers this month, they wondered how they would take care of their families if the checks stopped coming next month.  
     Let me read a little bit of that United Press story that came out yesterday.  Quote, "Half a world away from the Capitol -- the Capitol Hill deadlock, the economy and debt crisis are weighing heavily on U.S. troops in Afghanistan.  
     "And the top question on their minds Saturday, even as bombings rocked the city around them, was one the top United States military officer couldn't answer:  'Will we get paid?'" -- end of quote.
     Admiral Mullen went on to say, "I don't know the answer to that question, but that either way, those soldiers," he said, "all of you must continue to work every day."
     Mr. President, this is really unacceptable.  In a country as rich and powerful as ours, men and women with bombs going off around them shouldn't wonder whether this country will leave them high and dry.  
     This afternoon I asked those who have said they will never compromise on any terms to think about who their stubbornness will really hurt -- seniors, soldiers, and others.  
     I spoke to the vice president this morning, in fact, a couple of times.  He's hopeful.  Of course we have to be hopeful that we're close to an agreement with Republican leaders.  
     The framework of this agreement is based on new ideas and some old ideas.  After speaking with Republican Leader Mitch McConnell this morning, we are cautiously optimistic.  
     There are a number of issues yet to be resolved, and we must understand them.  There's no agreement that has been made.  But we're optimistic that one can be reached.  But we're not there yet.  
     Optimism in days past has been really stomped on at various times.  These major issues still to be resolved, or these ongoing discussions is something we have to resolve in the next few hours if they're going to be resolved.  
     Each of them must be resolved before we have a final agreement. And as we know, one problem can stop the whole agreement from going forward.  
     But we must get something done as quickly as possible.  I believe all sides are aware of this urgency.  It's unfortunate the House of Representatives wasted all last week on legislation they knew would never pass the Senate and, in fact, barely passed the House.  It passed the House with only Republican votes, not a single Democratic vote.  
     Democrats have said all along that we would never agree to a short-term arrangement that would put our economy at risk and force Congress into another debt ceiling showdown in a few weeks.  
     We have to move on.  House measure -- debt ceiling for five months, August, September, October, November, and December, five months.  We would be back in this same debate in a matter of weeks. We could not allow that to happen.  
     So any agreement has to have a long-term approach.  That's the long-term approach that we've taken here in the Senate is -- we've forced here in the Senate is absolutely necessary.  We must give financial markets confidence this country won't shirk its obligations now or in the future.  
     I know that the compromise being discussed at the White House adopts the Senate's long-term approach, which would give the economy the certainty it needs, take us past the year -- again, past January 2013.  That has to be done.  And that will be done if an agreement is reached.  
     It's also crucial the agreement being crafted set us on the path to fiscal restraint.  
     Mr. President, there are still elements to be resolved, and we're watching them very closely.  The (inaudible) must include thoughtful constraints on spending.  We know that.  The 12-member commission I conceived and recommended additional deficit reduction measures this year will be a key to that effort.  
     And I stay to my friend, the Republican leader, I appreciate his wrapping his arms around this and being such a cheerleader for this idea.  It's a good idea.  It's an idea that Congress itself would solve the problem.  It would be a joint committee that would move forward, and there would be a trigger that, if they didn't resolve this, then something else would happen.  
     And based on past experiences, I think there would be tremendous incentive not to let that certain thing happen when the trigger kicked in.  
     So Senator McConnell and I agree the commission owns the responsibility to set this country on the path to fiscal accountability.  The joint committee, there are no constraints.  It can look at any program we have in government, any program.  And it has the ability to look at everything.  And that's what needs to be done.  The commission will ensure we undertake that responsibility.  
     When I thought of this idea about the commission, I knew it was important that it achieve real results.  And it will be essential to choose members with open minds willing to consider every option, even when the options are tough pills to swallow for both parties.  
     So, Mr. President, cooperation is the only way forward. Compromise is the only way forward.  
     This is what Andrew Carnegie said about the virtue of compromise. Quote, "I shall argue that strong men" -- and since the Senate has changed so dramatically, "and strong women" -- that's me; I stuck that in -- "I shall argue that strong men know when to compromise and that all principles can be compromised to serve a greater principle" -- Andrew Carnegie.  
     But perhaps President Abraham Lincoln said it best when he said this, and I quote, "Determine that the thing can and shall be done, and then we shall find a way."
     That's where we are today, Mr. President.  We must determine that the thing can and shall be done, and then we need to find that way. That's President Abraham Lincoln.  
     Let the chair announce the business for the day.  
     (UNKNOWN):  Under the previous order, the leadership time is reserved.  Under the previous order, the Senate will resume consideration of the House...
     BORGER:  There we have -- there we have the Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid.  And with me now is Wolf Blitzer.  
     You just heard that Harry Reid said, quote, "We are close to an agreement.  We are cautiously optimistic."
     That's what I heard earlier from Senator Mitch McConnell.  What do you make of it?  
     WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR:  Well, I think Mitch McConnell and Harry Reid now seem to be pretty much on the same page.  Yesterday at this time they weren't very much on the same page.  But they look to be on the same page right now.  
     We still have to hear from the Republicans in the House of Representatives, the Speaker John Boehner, Nancy Pelosi, of course, the Democratic leader, if this is going to pass, whatever they work out.  And still, there's no deal until all -- all aspects of the deal are put together.       If it passes, they will need a majority in the Senate and they'll need a majority in the House of Representatives.  A lot of Democrats will vote for -- if the president is for this, a lot of Democrats, most of the Democrats, will vote for it in the House, but they'll still need a whole bunch of Republicans.  I don't think they're going to get a majority of the Republicans.  But even if they get a third of the Republicans, I think they could pass this and the country could move on.  
     BORGER:  And you heard Harry Reid talk about a long-term approach through 2013, which is clearly what the president wanted, but also a committee that seemed very important to Mitch McConnell -- and hopefully we can run some more of that -- this committee that would provide fiscal restraint for the Congress; in other words, forcing the Congress to act, essentially.  
     BLITZER:  Major -- major cuts, further cuts in spending, potentially cuts in entitlement spending -- Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security -- tax revenues potentially could be on the table, tax reform if not complete tax rate hikes.  
     All of that could be on the table if this committee -- and they differentiate a commission like the Erskine Bowles-Alan Simpson commission.  This would be a committee, equal number of Democrats, equal number of Republicans from Congress that would come up with the recommendations.  
     There would have to be a take-it-or-leave-it up-or-down vote in both chambers.  If for some reason it didn't pass, mandatory across- the-board cuts in the military spending, domestic spending, all sorts of spending would go into effect.  
     BORGER:  Including entitlements.  And the big question we have is where are revenues in all this?  And we can talk about that in a minute.  Let's take a quick break and we'll be right back and hear a little bit from Senator Mitch McConnell.

	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired July 31, 2011 - 20:30 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>DON LEMON, CNN ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone.  I'm Don Lemon at the CNN world headquarters in Atlanta.
WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR:  And I'm Wolf Blitzer here in Washington.
We're tracking breaking news this hour on the debt ceiling talks here in the nation's capital.  We've just learned that the president of the United States will be in the White House briefing room within the next 10 minutes or so to make a major statement on where these talks stand.
You're looking at live pictures from the West Wing of the White House right now.  Reporters are gearing up to hear the president.  The camera crews are getting ready.  This was not expected.  The president will be making a statement on where the situation stands as far as this debt ceiling crisis is concerned.
We are also expecting a statement on the Senate floor at some point from the Senate majority leader Harry Reid.  No word on what the Republicans are up to at this point but we've got a lot of news that we're following right now.
Don, this is a night that a lot of people will be watching not only here but in the -- around the world.  This is Harry Reid.  I don't know -- is this a live picture of Harry Reid?
LEMON:  This is live.  Harry Reid.  Let's --
BLITZER:  Let's go to Harry Reid on the Senate floor right now.
LEMON:  Yes.
SEN. HARRY REID (D), MAJORITY LEADER:  -- on the full faith credit of the United States.  Sometimes it seems our two sides disagree on almost everything, but in the end, reasonable people were able to agree on this.
The United States could not take the chance of defaulting on our debt risking the United States' financial collapse and worldwide depression.  America and the world have been watching our democracy expectantly.  And my message to the world tonight is that this nation and this Congress are moving forward and we're moving forward together.
Reaching a long-term accord that would give our economy the certainty it needs was not easy.  But our work is not done.  Leaders from both parties and both chambers will present this agreement to our caucuses tomorrow.  Senate Democrats will meet at 11:00 a.m.
To pass this settlement, we'll need the support of Democrats and Republicans in both the House and the Senate.  There is no way either party and either chamber, can do this alone.
As President Lyndon Johnson said, and I quote, "There are no problems we cannot solve together, and very few that we can solve by ourselves."
Democrats and Republicans have rarely needed to come together more than today.  I know this agreement won't make every Republican happy. It certainly won't make every Democrat happy either.  But both parties gave more ground than they wanted to and neither side got as much as it had hoped, but that is the essence of compromise, of consensus building, and the American people demanded compromise this week and they got it.
SEN. MITCH MCCONNELL (R), MINORITY LEADER:  Madam president?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The Republican leader.
MCCONNELL:  This is an important moment for our country.  I appreciate the majority leader's comments and I want to say a few words to our colleagues who have been so patient over the past several days and whose ideas and encouragement have been so helpful in getting us to this point.
First of all, let me reiterate that before any agreement is reached, Republicans will meet to discuss the framework that the White House and congressional leaders in both parties think would meet our stated efforts to cut spending more than the president's requested debt ceiling increase, prevent a national default, and protect the economy from tax increases.
And to that end I'd like to say to my Republican colleagues that we'll be holding a conference meeting in the morning to discuss the framework and to give everyone a chance to weigh in.  But at this point I think I can say with a high degree of confidence that there is now a framework to review that will ensure significant cuts in Washington spending.
And we can assure the American people tonight that the United States of America will not, for the first time in our history, default on its obligations.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Clerk will call the roll.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Mr. Akaka.
BLITZER:  All right.  So there you have it.  The two leaders of the United States Senate trying to reassure the world, especially those jittery markets out in Asia that are just beginning to open right now. The United States government will not default for the first time ever.
This is an important moment, Don Lemon, as we get ready to hear the president of the United States.  I suspect his reasoning for going out and speaking within the next few moments from the West Wing of the White House, from the White House briefing room, also to try to reassure the markets in Asia and, in effect, the markets here in the United States that will open Monday morning that the United States is moving in the right direction and will not default.
It's one of those moments that is critical in this process right now. Harry Reid once again speaking.
REID:  -- expired and the time for the two leaders be reserved for use later in the day.  Following the remarks, the Senate resumed consideration and a motion to concur and the House message will come at 627, the legislative vehicle for the debt limit increase.
And then Senate recessed from 11:00 a.m. until 12:30 p.m.  Further at 12:30 the Senate resumed consideration and motion to concur with the House message to 627 with the time until 2:00 equally divided and controlled between two leaders of the designees with senators permitted to speak for up to 10 minutes each.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Without objection.
REID:  There will be a Democratic caucus at 11:00 a.m. tomorrow. There's no further business come before the Senate.  I ask that we adjourn under the previous order.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The Senate stands adjourned until 10:30 a.m. tomorrow morning.
LEMON:  And Wolf, you heard there's going to be a Democratic caucus tomorrow at 11:00 a.m.  And we need to say as we wait for the president to speak -- and he's scheduled to speak in just a few minutes here -- there is a conference call, if it's all going on on time, with John Boehner now.  Conference call with fellow Republicans that will get under way, or should be under way now.
And he's expected to talk to them and say that there isn't a deal yet but they are working on it.
And Wolf, there were some sticking points.  We are told that the House speaker was concerned about defense spending cuts.
BLITZER:  Defense spending is a critical issue for so many Republicans, a lot of Democrats as well.  Because if in fact part two of this tentative agreement, the framework, as Harry Reid and Mitch McConnell just described, if it doesn't go through and around Thanksgiving they're supposed to have recommendations from a super congressional committee on additional spending cuts and ways to deal with this long-term U.S. national debt crisis.
If they don't have that, that would trigger automatic cuts across the board, including in defense spending, and right now we're told, as you point out, that a lot of Republicans, especially in the House of Representatives, some Democrats, they're very nervous about that. They don't like it.
You're looking on the left part of your screen, there's Jessica Yellin.  She's getting ready for our coverage as well, our chief White House correspondent.
The president of the United States will be walking in to the briefing room to make his statement, presumably explaining to all of us why he's encouraged by what has happened, and while, I suspect the problem will not be in the United States Senate.  I believe, based on what we heard from Harry Reid and Mitch McConnell just now.
I think the Senate will fall in line behind the president and this agreement.
LEMON:  And Wolf --
BLITZER:  The real problem will be, Don, in the House.
LEMON:  I have some -- I have some news just here real quickly that we have just gotten in a senior administration official confirms the White House and Republicans have struck a deal.  They have struck a deal to raise the debt ceiling.
And as Wolf and I have been reporting, you're looking at a live picture of the White House.  The briefing room, just shortly, the president will come out and make a speech to the American public and you saw the leaders there, the Democratic leader, and also the Republican leader on the House floor, saying that there has to be some sort of consensus on this.
And really, Wolf, he is -- both men have been saying now compromise, compromise.  And a good deal, a good deal by most accounts is a deal where not everybody is happy and both leaders said -- especially Harry Reid.  He said not everybody's going to be happy with this but we have to do this for the good of the country and the American people.
BLITZER:  Yes.  And -- so let's just set the scene once again, Don. The president getting ready to go into the White House briefing room, make his statement.  We'll see if he sticks around and answers some questions from reporters.
The speaker of the House, the Republican leader in the House, John Boehner is on a conference call with his Republican caucus right now presumably explaining the details of the framework agreement.
Let's go to CNN's Jessica Yellin, our chief White House correspondent.
We're only a minute or two away from the president, Jessica.  But this was not expected that we would hear tonight from the president.
JESSICA YELLIN, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  No.  The White House has been noticeably silent all weekend as they've waited for the elements of this deal to come together and then just moments ago noticed that the president would be coming out, we are told, to announce the framework or to acknowledge the framework that this deal has been struck with Congress to raise the debt ceiling.
Of course we'll be listening to him closely for details.  There was this last sticking point with Speaker Boehner, sources told us, over the nature of defense cuts and whether there would be -- what defense cuts would come in that first round of these negotiations.  But so much more at stake beyond that and many questions for him to answer. We will hear from him in less than two minutes.
LEMON:  And Jessica, any idea on the deal that has been struck here? We're just going to hear it from the president, but do you have any idea of what they have come to?
YELLIN:  Well, you know, it's been a fast moving story and I wouldn't want to prejudge what they're going to say.  What we've been reporting so far is that it's a $2.4 trillion deal to raise the debt ceiling by that amount.  The big question is how much will the spending cuts equal, will it exceed that?
We have heard reports that it could exceed that, which of course some Democrats have been concerned about.  We'll listen closely to hear what he says on that front.  The other big question is in what nature, what ways, will revenue come up at all?  Will there be any assurances that Democrats can even attack that at all?  And then the other big matter is the spending issue I addressed up front.
