
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired February 7, 2011 - 22:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Good evening, everyone.  We are devoting the entire hour tonight to what's happening there, to what's happening right now in Egypt, because it is a matter of life and death.  
     This is what Liberation Square looks like tonight, anti-Mubarak protesters still occupying it.  Surrounded by soldiers, they are refusing to leave.  They're standing their ground.  
     Now, in some ways, it's more dangerous right now for those protesters, more dangerous because as the reporters leave and the world turns its attention elsewhere, they become more vulnerable, more easy to arrest, more easy to torture, more easy to kill.  
     In a few moments, we're going to show you a full video of a single peaceful protester being shot to death before your eyes.  He wasn't hurling any rocks.  He wasn't holding a gun.  That man standing in the streets in a few seconds will be dead.  Egyptian police shot him dead.  
     Nearly 300 people have been killed in the last 14 days, according to Human Rights Watch, most of them not videotaped, their deaths not recorded.  And according to "The Wall Street Journal," nearly 1,300 people have been injured.  They're citing figures from the Egyptian Organization for Human Rights.
     Some of those 1,300 people have been released, but others still held, and we don't know where and we don't know what's being done to them.  According to several "New York Times" personnel who were held by the secret police a few days ago, they could hear captured Egyptians being beaten, tortured, crying out in pain.  
     That is the truth of the Mubarak regime.  They have blood on their hands.  And the question tonight, are they really going to change for themselves?  
     You are going to hear from our reporters on the ground in a moment, also in Washington, and we will talk to Mohamed ElBaradei, a leading opposition figure.  But we begin as always tonight "Keeping Them Honest."  And tonight we begin by focusing on the lies the Egyptian government continues to tell.  
     Now, I know lies is a strong word; it's one we rarely use.  We have talked about different facts, but we can't think of another word right now to describe what the Egyptian government has been saying, because what they have been saying is the direct opposite of what they have been doing.  The lies go back years, decades, of course.  But we want to just focus on some of the ones we have heard in the last few days.  
     The new vice president of Egypt, this man, Omar Suleiman, has for years been Mubarak's closest henchman, running his intelligence service.  Now, he says his government has accepted many of the protesters' complaints.  He says they're reaching out to opposition leaders.
     But while he was saying that, literally, while his lips were moving and saying those things on Egyptian television and on ABC News, his secret police were still arresting opposition figures.  Thugs burst into the offices of human rights organizations, trashing the places, arresting a number of human rights monitors.  
     And there's been absolutely no transparency about what the Egyptian government is doing right now, other than a few awkward photo-ops on Egyptian government-controlled television.  The Egyptian government has denied any involvement in these kind of attacks by mobs on peaceful demonstrators and reporters.  They say they have no idea how these things happened.  
     But the Egyptian military stood there and let it happen.  I saw that with my own eyes.  We all saw that.  And when they realized the protesters could not be beaten back by mobs and reporters would continue working, the military suddenly stepped in.  And with a few rolls of concertina wire and a few shots in the air, they suddenly were able to keep the mobs at bay.  
     The Egyptian government says the military didn't want to choose sides, but the truth is, they did choose sides.  They searched peaceful demonstrators entering Liberation Square for days, but made no efforts to search or calm pro-Mubarak mobs as they descended on Liberation Square.  
     Even while the government was insisting that journalists were welcome to report freely in Egypt, at the end of last week, we have now learned that from the International Committee to Protect Journalists 26 journalists have been detained since the end of last week, since Friday, 71 since the protests began, and those are just the ones they could count.  
     So how can a regime that's operated under emergency powers for 30 years be expected to suddenly transition to democracy and act with transparency?  Those emergency powers allow the Egyptian government to arrest anyone they want at any time.  
     Take a look at what happened when Candy Crowley pressed Egypt's prime minister about this yesterday on CNN.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     CANDY CROWLEY, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT:   Mr. Prime Minister, our reporters on the scene in Cairo tell us that while you negotiate about a democratic process, there are still arrests of local and international human rights activists, as well as journalists. Why are you arresting them? 
     AHMED SHAFIQ, EGYPTIAN PRIME MINISTER:  No, no, I didn't understand you.   I didn't understand you. 
     CROWLEY:  We are told that you are arresting human rights activists and journalists.  Why? 
     SHAFIQ:  No.  I don't hear well.  I don't hear well now. 
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     COOPER:  Suddenly sound problems developed.  He couldn't hear.  A few moments later, Candy tried again.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     CROWLEY:  Let me ask you by arrests by the military police.  Why are they arresting...
     SHAFIQ:  About?
     CROWLEY:  Arrests.  
     SHAFIQ:  About what?  
     CROWLEY:  About the detention of human rights activists.  Why are you detaining them?  
     SHAFIQ: Ah. 
     Frankly speaking, if there is some problem, it's not intended at all, my dear.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     COOPER: "It's not intended at all, my dear," that was his answer, finally.  
     This is a police state.  Some estimates say there are more than 1.5 million people employed at the feared Interior Ministry, secret police, thugs, informers.  The man who oversaw the intelligence services is now the vice president of Egypt.  
     It's not intended at all?  Thursday, while the Egyptian government was talking about reaching out to opposition figures, nine young dissidents had a meeting with opposition leader Mohamed ElBaradei.  That evening, all nine were rounded up and detained.  
     I spoke with Mr. ElBaradei earlier today.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
     COOPER:  Dr. ElBaradei, should people believe anything that the Mubarak regime is saying publicly?  Because it seems to me, over the last several days, they have made a number of public statements that, when you actually look at their actions and what they're doing behind the scenes show those statements to be false.  They say they're for press freedom and, yet, clearly there was an orchestrated campaign to attack the media.  
     They say they had no control over the people attacking the pro- Mubarak -- the anti-Mubarak demonstrators in the square, and yet as soon as there was too much international attention, those attacks stopped.  So, should people believe this regime?  
     MOHAMED ELBARADEI, NOBEL PEACE PRIZE LAUREATE:  Anderson, I don't think they have an iota of credibility right now.  
     And they're -- what they say is one thing; what they do is completely the other.  They have attacked foreign journalists.  They have detained young demonstrators.  I give you just one perfect example.  People last Thursday came from -- from the Tahrir Square to meet with me.  And these were cardiologists, lawyers, engineers.  
     Nine of them got detained the same day the vice president was saying that they were releasing all the demonstrators.  They were kept for a couple days.  They were blindfolded.  And I had to make that public everywhere, kicking and scream, if you like, until they got released yesterday.  
     So, there is nothing they are doing that's lending them any sense of credibility.  And you can't really make the transition through the outgoing regime, through a regime that is basically adopting a military approach to democracy.  What we need is right now to have a national coalition government that takes over, that is representative of that peaceful revolution, and they are the one who should make the change.  
     COOPER:  Even though now, there seems to be more security on the ground for the -- for the anti-Mubarak protesters in the square, it seems to me that could change on a moment's notice.  
     I mean, we have seen the military come and go for reasons that are completely unknown to anybody other than the military and the Mubarak regime.  And if those protesters were to leave the square, they could be picked off one by one over time by the secret police who we know routinely torture and have all sorts of extrajudicial and illegal detentions.  
     ELBARADEI:  Correct.  And all the guys young and old are aware of that.  They are -- there is no way that they are leaving the square.  
     The army tried a couple times to try to go through them through tanks, but they made a human shield.  Nobody is going to leave the square, Anderson.  I can tell you that.  
     COOPER:  Dr. ElBaradei, I appreciate your time.  
     ELBARADEI:  Thank you very much, Anderson.  
     (END VIDEOTAPE) 
     COOPER:  Mohamed ElBaradei, I talked to him earlier.  
     With us now from Cairo, CNN's Ben Wedeman and Ivan Watson on the ground.  And joining me here now, Professor Fouad Ajami of the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies.
     Fouad, have you heard -- it seems to me we are just hearing lies from the Egyptian government?  You have Suleiman going on television saying we're transitioning to democracy, and, at the same time, their thugs are arresting people still?
     FOUAD AJAMI, PROFESSOR OF MIDDLE EASTERN STUDIES, JOHNS HOPKINS SCHOOL OF ADVANCED INTERNATIONAL STUDIES:  We should be under no illusions about Omar Suleiman.  He's Mubarak's Mubarak.  He's an inside man.
     And what they done is they have put forward Omar Suleiman as the front of the regime because they basically -- the man of the regime, the leader of the regime is such an anathema to the crowd and such an anathema to the protesters.  
     This is an authoritarian state.  It's been an authoritarian state.  That's the only game it knows.  And when an American envoy, Ambassador Frank Wisner, goes to Egypt and says that Mubarak should be given the right to write his own legacy, to determine his own legacy, this is the legacy of this regime, this is what this regime knows.
     And we have ridden this roller coaster, a dose of repression and a dose of negotiations, one face of the regime one day, and another face of the regime the next day.  
     ANDERSON COOPER, HOST, "ANDERSON COOPER 360":  Ben, in terms of the intelligence services, in terms of the secret police, they are all still there, correct?  I mean, there's not any talk about eliminating them or lifting the state of emergency which allows them to arrest people whenever they want?  
     BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Certainly there's no talk, Anderson, from the side of the government, although, obviously, that is -- those are some of the demands being put forth by the protesters.
     But, in fact, the regime, as opposed to President Mubarak, is still very much in place.  In fact, I spoke to one analyst here in Cairo.  He said, effectively, we have already entered the post-Mubarak era, that Omar Suleiman is the strongman.  He's in control of the apparatus of the state, whether that be the police, the intelligence services, and the army, that really the only thing that is changing is Mubarak is being gradually phased out of the picture, gradually stripped of his real presidential executive powers.  And we just have a new strongman in his place -- Anderson.  
     COOPER:  And, Ivan, the situation in the square is what now?  
     IVAN WATSON, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, the interesting change that we have seen is that, whereas before, all of these demonstrators were preparing for battle against the pro-Mubarak as they call them thugs, now they have shifted their tactics and they're focusing on this potentially much more deadly threat, which is the military itself.  
     And you see columns of Egyptian soldiers in full riot gear periodically marching in front of the barricades, a definite show of force.  The demonstrators are sitting not behind the barricades, hiding from rocks.  Now they're in front of them, as we speak, sitting cross-legged in front of campfires huddled in the cold.  They form this human chain, knowing that they are going to lay their lives out there if the soldiers try to come in and break down their barricades.  
     They say they're there to stop the tanks.  They're afraid that the military could be used against them to try to break this whole thing, their whole revolution, kill it.  And they have a real good point.  As you point out, a lot of these detentions, Anderson, we're finding out are being conducted by the military police, plainclothed military police.
     The military that is supposed to be neutral in this political crisis, they are the ones who have been detaining journalists, the Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch activists as well as a number of Egyptian activists in the raid of couple of days ago that took place.  They are the ones that are carrying out a lot of these detentions right now.  
     COOPER:  So, Fouad, all this talk about the military not taking sides, that's just again not true.  
     AJAMI:  Well, we really don't know what's happening inside the Egyptian military, and I don't think we will for a long time.  This is the -- again, this is best described as the black box of this regime.  
     COOPER:  Are these protesters right to hold on to the square? Because it seems to me, if they do leave and the world turns away -- because as soon as they leave that square, most of the world's attention is going to turn away.  They can be picked off one by one.  
     AJAMI:  Right.  The protesters have now entered the most dangerous phase of this California.  They are known to the Secret Services.  They have bet it all, and if indeed this regime survives, if this regime truly in a way deludes us that it has changed, it has reformed, it has amended its ways, most of these protesters, the leaders of these protesters are in great, great dangers.  
     I have been talking to several Egyptian intellectuals.  This is now the most dangerous phase.  For those who dared stand up to the regime, they surprised themselves, they surprised the regime, and the regime is not yet spent.  And we don't really know.  There's a heavy dosage of repression if need be that could be applied to this conflict.  
     And as you said, as the world turns its attention, as people leave, as the story becomes somewhat tedious and somewhat familiar...
     (CROSSTALK) 
     COOPER:  As the pictures aren't as dramatic...
     AJAMI:  Absolutely.  This is exactly what Mubarak bet on all along.  This is the ultimate gray man strategy.  This is his procedure.  
     COOPER:  Ben, is that what you hear from the protesters as well? How concerned are they?  Do they feel that this is an extraordinarily dangerous time?  
     WEDEMAN:  Well, the mood in this square is incredibly buoyant, despite these concerns.  And they concerned about how long they can keep this up.  
     But there's a very important development that's happened in the last few hours.  Wael Ghonim, this Google executive who was detained by the intelligence here on the 28th, was released.  He came out and he did an interview on Dream TV, which is a private Egyptian satellite channel.  
     It was an incredibly emotional interview, where he slammed the government for accusing the people in the square of being foreign agents, of basically essentially being mercenaries on behalf of foreign forces.  And...
     (CROSSTALK) 
     COOPER:  Yes, Ben, I want to play for our viewers some of that interview, and then have you comment about what the people are telling you about it.  Let's just play that.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     WAEL GHONIM, GOOGLE (through translator):  Oh, I'm not a hero.  I slept for 12 days.  The heroes were in the streets.  The heroes are the ones that went to the demonstrations.  The heroes are the ones that went sacrificed their lives.  The heroes are the ones that were beaten.  And the heroes are the ones that were arrested and exposed to dangers.  I wasn't a hero.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     COOPER:  Ben, what kind of reaction is that getting?  
     WEDEMAN:  Incredible reaction.  It's really earthshaking, the sort of jolt it sent through Egyptians.  And a lot of Egyptians who were sitting on the sidelines sort of undecided about how to act, I'm hearing a lot of people who have not been to Tahrir plan to go to Tahrir tomorrow.  Many of the staff of Cairo University say they're going to Tahrir tomorrow.  
     So, this has really reinvigorated the anti-Mubarak movement. They have really a figure who has come out and spoken emotionally and convincingly about his convictions, his belief that what he's doing is for the good of Egypt, because, Anderson, what we have heard so far from the government media is just really a pack of sort of scandalous allegations against the protesters, that they are agents of Israel, Hamas, Hezbollah, and the United States, a rather bizarre combination of supporters, you have to admit.  
     And what -- he sort of swiped those away.  And what we're seeing is a gradual sort of backlash against the official media that's been running this smear campaign.  He really bit back at them, and I think we may see a difference as a result of his interview.  
     COOPER:  So there are more people, Fouad, who could still come to the square and we're in a critical juncture?  
     AJAMI:  Look, we go back to something you said a couple of days ago from Cairo about people conquering fear.  And I think...
     COOPER:  Fear has been defeated.  That's what a lot the protesters are saying, that there's no turning back.  
     AJAMI:  Absolutely.  The old Egypt is defeated.  The old system of submission to the pharaoh, submission to the state, fear of the rulers, fear of the secret police.
     COOPER:  But the state is not giving up.  The secret police are not giving up.  They're out there.  They're waiting.  And they're -- I mean, they're ready to hold on to power.  
     AJAMI:  Because that's exactly the counter-revolution.  The people you have seen, the people who just want to bid farewell to the past and to the corruption of the past and to the tyranny of the past have made their stand.  
     But the counter-revolution has not yet been spent.  These people own a country, the senior officer of the Mubarak people, Omar Suleiman, and the people around him.  And what they do is, they do these cosmetic reforms.  Someone leaves the National Democratic Party. Then you put up someone who is a reformer.  
     COOPER:  That's Mubarak's party.
