
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired October 13, 2011 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     JOHN KING, CNN ANCHOR:  Erin, thanks.  We begin with breaking news.  
     A guilty verdict for the man tried in connection with a deadly home invasion in Connecticut.  The jury convicted Joshua Komisarjevsky on all of 17 counts against him including murder, kidnapping and arson.  He could face the death penalty.  
     The jury heard gruesome and emotional testimony, detailing the deaths of Jennifer Hawke-Petit and her two daughter, Michaela and Hayley, just 11 and 17 years old.  
     The only survivor, father and husband, Dr. William Petit has been in court nearly every day of this trial, sitting stoically, saying very little to reporters.  Not long ago he spoke about the man convicted for brutalizing his family.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     DR. WILLIAM PETIT, FAMILY KILLED IN HOME INVASION:  I'm not surprised at all.  I think -- I thought from the beginning that he was a lying sociopathic personality.  And he probably at this moment doesn't think he's guilty of anything.  He's convinced himself of that, I suspect.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     KING:  You'll hear much more from Dr. Petit and from our Deborah Feyerick who was right there in the courtroom.  That's coming up on 360.  
     But first, we're "Keeping Them Honest" on the campaign trail. GOP presidential hopeful Herman Cain has gone from underdog to possible top dog.  As we touched on last night, the latest NBC/"Wall Street Journal" poll shows Cain with support from 27 percent of Republican voters.  Mitt Romney is 4 percentage points behind him. Ranked third, Texas Governor Rick Perry with 16 percent saying they'd vote for him.  
     Today, as you might have seen in the last hour on CNN, Cain sat down with Erin Burnett for an in-depth interview that covered several topics.  "Keeping Him Honest," Cain said some questionable things.  We begin with his comments on Iran's alleged plot to kill the Saudi ambassador to the United States.  Watch.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     HERMAN CAIN (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  I happen to believe that this attempted assassination that Iran has its fingerprints all over based upon the reports that we've seen was because this president is perceived as weak.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     KING:  Mr. Cain, we'd love to see those reports.  Nowhere have we seen in any of the information about this alleged plot that this suspected plot came about because President Obama is weak.  In fact, nowhere aside from you has it even been suggested that's how this plot came about.  
     Now to Mr. Cain's economic vision.  He's been touting his so- called 999 plan.  Here's the breakdown.  He wants a 9 percent business flat tax, a 9 percent individual flat tax, and a 9 percent national sales tax.  Cain is also calling for the end to the payroll tax and the state tax among other big changes.  Today, in that interview with Erin, the former CEO of Godfather's Pizza claimed his plan will help the U.S. economy.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     CAIN:  When this economy is growing with my 999 plan, we will be growing at a robust rate rather than this anemic rate that we are growing at today.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     KING:  Remember that.  We'll be growing at a robust rate he says. "Keeping Them Honest," there are some serious questions about that. Cain's 999 plan would bring in nearly $1.77 trillion.  But currently our tax system brings in more than -- way more than that, at least $2.16 trillion.  So Mr. Cain's plan brings in about 18 to 20 percent less in tax revenue.  And "Keeping Him Honest," there's no talk of the economy growing at a robust rate right now from several economists and others including one of Cain's own paid political consultants.  
     Gary Robbins told Politico yesterday he doesn't think the plan would even pass.  And it's not the route he would suggest.  He said, quote, "The problem with the big-bang changes like that, the flat tax or the fair tax is that they are so alien to the current system that it would be a great big shock."  
     And Bruce Bartlett, former adviser to Presidents Reagan and George H.W. Bush said this week in "The New York Times," "at a minimum, the Cain plan is a distributional monstrosity.  The poor would pay more while the rich would have their taxes cut with no guarantee that economic growth will increase and good reason to believe that the budget deficit will increase."  
     Some of the critics of Cain's 999 plan.  Now another voice. Earlier I spoke with Eric Fehrnstrom, senior adviser to the Romney campaign.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     KING:  So Eric, you've seen the new numbers.  Herman Cain now has a four-point edge on your boss, nationally.  Maybe within the sampling area but -- regardless.  What happened?  Why is Herman Cain suddenly on top of this pack?  
     ERIC FEHRNSTROM, SENIOR ADVISOR, ROMNEY CAMPAIGN:  Well, Herman Cain is a serious competitor.  I know that Mitt Romney respects and admires him.  They share in common the fact that they both have private sector experience.  And Mitt believes that's going to be an important quality in our next president.  
     I think -- I think Herman is someone who's going to get more attention now that he's moving up in the polls.  One thing that people will look at very closely is his 999 plan.  This is his proposed change in tax policy.  And I think there are a couple of significant drawbacks to that.  
     KING:  I want to focus on Governor Romney for a second.  He's been out there for five years.  He ran for the nomination the last time.  Republican voters know who he is, they now what he stands for, but still having trouble with the base.  
     Let's listen to Rush Limbaugh who doesn't like your candidate. He says, "Romney is not a conservative.  He's not, folks.  You can argue with me all day long on that.  But he isn't.  He is a gentleman, but he's not a conservative."  
     Why are we still hearing statements like that after all this time Governor Romney being out there courting the right?  
     FEHRNSTROM:  Well, look, I have the privilege of serving with Mitt Romney during his time as governor of Massachusetts.  And this was an individual who fought for English immersion in our schools.  He was tough on illegal immigration.  He vetoed an instate tuition bill, he fought to lower taxes.  He fought to cut spending and reform government.  He's pro-death penalty.  
     This is an individual who is most definitely a conservative.  
     KING:  He was also pro-choice on abortion rights at one point, though, in his campaign against Senator Kennedy, and some conservatives do question, do they not, his change of heart?  He calls it a legitimate change of heart.  But fair to say some conservatives question that.  
     FEHRNSTROM:  Well, I -- you know, our campaign is growing in momentum every day.  Just this week we announced the endorsement of Chris Christie and welcomed him to the fold.  I don't think there's a more significant voice for cutting spending and reforming government in the country than Governor Christie.  And every day we're adding new people.  We feel good about the direction of the campaign and how things are going.  And we're very pleased with the state of the race.  
     KING:  Let's turn to the outside of the political spectrum. There's no secret, the Obama campaign has been going negative on your candidate.  David Axelrod had a conference call yesterday.  Pretty clear from that that they view Governor Romney as the likely nominee at this point.  And so now today, you and David Axelrod taking this battle to the Twitter verse.  
     Axelrod writes, "A year ago Romney hit Obama in No Apology for being too tough on China, now Mitt's a trade warrior?  Should have called his book 'No Shame.'"  To which Eric Fehrnstrom quickly tweets back, "You should rename Obama's book, 'The Audacity of Indifference', or 'How I Golfed My Way to A Recession.'" 
      Part of this is tongue-and-cheek and funny, but is it a sign of things to come?  
     FEHRNSTROM:  Well, I think what you can expect from this White House is more hocus pocus that's meant to distract people's attention from the bad state of the economy.  And in some ways, Mr. Axelrod reminds me of one of those old Vaudeville magicians who uses something called redirection to distract the attention of the audience from the performance of the trick.  
     And the trick in this case is trying to get Barack Obama reelected despite his failures on the economy.  I wish him luck but I do really believe that this election is going to be a referendum on the performance of Barack Obama when it comes to creating jobs and getting this economy moving.  
     KING:  Eric Fehrnstrom, appreciate your time.  
     FEHRNSTROM:  Thank you, John.  
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     KING:  Let's dig into the "Raw Politics" now.  Joining me, chief political analyst, Gloria Borger, former New York Congresswoman Susan Molinari, currently president of Susan Molinari Strategies, and Ken Blackwell, senior fellow at the Family Research Council and the former Ohio secretary of state.  
     Gloria, the White House has this conference call.  And clearly the Obama is the frontrunner.  Yet Herman Cain shakes things up.  He's at the top of the pack.  Rick Perry has got a ton of money to spend. Could still be a factor here.  
     Is this Obama-Romney narrative getting way out ahead of itself?  
     GLORIA BORGER, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL ANALYST:  You know the White House really have nothing to lose, John, by doing it.  Obviously when you talk to people in the White House, as I do, they'll tell you that Mitt Romney is the person that they think would be the toughest opponent, the toughest to beat.  
     And also let me be a little bit cynical here, if I might, which is that in taking on Mitt Romney, they also remind Republicans about why they don't like Mitt Romney.  And that sort of sews some more discord within the Republican Party, which is exactly what the Obama campaign would like to do.  So I think it serves a couple of purposes and why not do it early.  
     KING:  I'm just -- I'm shocked.  I can't speak now that you've said there could be something cynical about this.  I don't know what to do.  
     BORGER:  Sorry about that.  
     KING:  Susan Molinari, you're a Romney supporter.  If you look at this poll, sure, he's -- you know, either at the top or close to the top.  But if you look at Herman Cain's jump to the top, and if you look out in Iowa in the NBC poll, Herman Cain has twice as much support among the Tea Party voters.  
     Are you worried that your candidate is having trouble with the base especially the Tea Party?  
     SUSAN MOLINARI, REPUBLICAN ANALYST:  Well, look, I think Herman Cain is a credible candidate.  And he certainly has done a fine job in the debates in terms of coming from nowhere and capturing some imagination.  And we're always going to have a race for who's going to be second or who's going to be first.  I am not worried at this point. 
     I was, as you know, last time around a big Mayor Rudy Giuliani supporter.  I was a Chris Christie supporter.  I think what Governor Romney has shown us in this political campaign is such consistency and such leadership and really sticking to a thoughtful pattern of how he would govern as president of the United States.  
     But I think he is going to close the deal with conservatives as more and more sort of the momentum continues to move to Mitt Romney when it comes to money, when it comes to organization.  And again, when it comes to consistency.  
     You just spent a few minutes challenging Herman Cain On things he has not been challenged on before.  When you are the personable, colorful candidate that comes up with some new ideas, you have a tendency to not get hit by the media and has an opportunity to rise to the polls.  When you start to come near the top, it's a tougher ride.  
     KING:  And Herman Cain will get that tougher ride and more scrutiny in our debate that's coming up next Tuesday.  
     MOLINARI:  It's starting already, sure.  
     KING:  I know that.  But Ken Blackwell, you know, Susan just noted, and I should make this point.  She's noted she was for Giuliani last time.  At this time, four years ago, Giuliani was way ahead in the national polls.  So we should remember that as we talk about the national polls now.  I don't remember the Giuliani administration.  
     KEN BLACKWELL, FORMER OHIO SECRETARY OF STATE:  Right.  
     KING:  But who is the frontrunner?  Is it accurate to call Mitt Romney the frontrunner?  I mean, he's got the organization, he's got the fundraising, but Herman Cain is clearly on the rise and connecting with people.       BLACKWELL:  I think you just outlined it properly.  Herman Cain is on the rise.  Mitt Romney has been out there longer.  He has the money.  He has the organization.  And I think the compressed primary schedule is -- plays to his favor given his superior organization and his money.  
     But he does have a challenge.  If, in fact, his 28 percent, 27 percent when he's around that number, over the average, is his ceiling, that's problematic for him.  And that suggests that he's going to have some really difficult challenges in a very conservative state.  
     So, you know, all of them have their challenges.  Herman has caught on because he's imaginative, he's out there, he's new.  But, you know, his plan is going to come under scrutiny.  And I'll tell you, what's going to get a lot of conservatives about his 999 plan is right on growth, is right on simplification, but is wrong when you start to talk about giving the federal government the opportunity to tax states.  
     BORGER:  Yes.  
     BLACKWELL:  That changes the whole relationship between the central government and the states.  
     MOLINARI:  I agree with that.  
     KING:  I want everyone to listen here.  Gloria, I'll come to you first.  
     Anita Perry, the first lady of Texas, making an emotional speech in South Carolina today.  Listen to this.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     ANITA PERRY, GOV. RICK PERRY'S WIFE:  It's been a rough month.  I have to tell you, we have been brutalized and beaten up and chewed up in the press to where I need this today.  We're being brutalized by our opponents and our own party.  So much of that is, I think they look at him because of his faith.  He's the only true conservative -- well, there are some conservatives perhaps, and they're there for good reasons.  And they may feel like God called them, too.  But I truly feel like we are here for that purpose.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     KING:  NBC caught that moment.  
     Gloria Borger, we are here for that purpose.  Brutalized by other Republicans because of his faith.  How is that going to sell?  
     BORGER:  I don't think it's going to sell well at all.  The last thing you want to do is make a presidential candidate looks like somebody who is complaining or a victim.  You know this is a brutal race.  He's been brutalized by his opponents because that's what happens to frontrunners.  And Rick Perry was up there for a little bit as a frontrunner.  And he could -- he could come back as the frontrunner.  
     But I don't think this kind of language will help her husband at all.  Particularly when you challenge the motives of other candidates in the field and saying that it was his calling as opposed to anyone else's.  I just don't see how that helps him.  
     KING:  Susan, what do you think -- what do you think Mrs. Perry was trying to say there, Susan?  
     MOLINARI:  You know it's very difficult.  Look, I understand as the daughter of an elected official and as a wife of an elected official, sometimes it's harder on the family to sit there and watch what a candidate has to go through.  
     Mitt -- you know, Governor Perry has gone through and has been brutalized because he has done really such a disappointing job in these debates and his failure to come to the expectations that a lot of people has as a political person.  
     And to sit there and really say that he has been demonized because of his faith when we have just had, you know, a president of the United States like George Bush who really was so upfront about his faith, that Jesus was the person, you know, that he looked to most, was so comfortable in his faith, and obviously it wasn't a detriment to his election that I just think it does not -- I agree with Gloria, I don't think it helps the campaign, I don't think it helps politics, it doesn't help the discussion.  
     KING:  Ken Blackwell, what about the subset of evangelicals, though?  How will this play out?  
     BLACKWELL:  Well, I think in the final analysis, look, when you talk about the important issues of marriage and life, we sort of look at Catholics, Mormons, evangelicals as co-belligerents, which means that they have a public agenda around which they can rally, even if their theologies don't perfectly match one another.  
     So look, anybody that tries to divide along religious lines within the conservative movement is going to be in trouble.  Anybody who tries to play the victim, whether they are Mormon or Baptist or Catholic will find that that just won't go there far.  
     KING:  Ken Blackwell, Susan Molinari, Gloria Borger, appreciate it.  Thanks.  
     BORGER:  Thanks, John.  
     MOLINARI:  Thank you.  
     KING:  A programming note, you can see all the Republican candidates Tuesday night when Anderson hosts the "Western Republican Presidential Debate" out in Las Vegas, 8:00 p.m. Eastern right here on CNN.  
     And of course, as always, let us know what you think.  We're on Facebook or you can follow me on Twitter, @JohnkingCNN.       Up next, another "Keeping Them Honest" report.  President Obama touting his jobs plan, slamming Republicans for not having their own blueprint for restarting the economy.  He also says they aren't saying what they don't like about his plan.  Truth is, Republicans have done both.  
     And a second man convicted of murdering a mother and her two young daughters in a horrific home invasion.  We'll hear from the sole survivor of that tragic night, the husband, the father who lost everything when 360 returns.  
     ISHA SESAY, CNN ANCHOR:  And John, day 12 of the Michael Jackson's death trial as the prosecution prepares to wrap up its case. 
     I'll look ahead at Dr. Conrad Murray's defense.  How will his lawyers diffuse powerful testimony by his peers about his alleged criminal negligence.  That and more when 360 continues.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     KING:  Another "Keeping Them Honest" report.  President Obama is touting his jobs plan and calling on Congress to pass it.  But his wish is not their command.  Mr. Obama has some tough words for Republicans who oppose his plan.  Here's what he said today at a press conference in response to a question from our own Jessica Yellin.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  And the last time I was here at a press conference, I said -- I asked you guys to show us the Republican jobs plan that independent economists would indicate would actually put people back to work.  
     I haven't yet seen it.  And so, eventually, I'm hoping that they actually put forward some proposals that indicate that they feel that sense of urgency about people being -- need to put people back to work right now.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     KING:  You got that?  He's hoping Republicans put forward some proposal that shows they feel a sense of urgency about creating jobs. That's what the president said.  
     Well, "Keeping Him Honest," Republicans haven't unveiled their own plans.  Last month just days after President Obama unveiled his jobs plan in that big speech before Congress, House Speaker John Boehner shared his own thoughts on how to improve the economy.  
