
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired January 25, 2012 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Erin, thanks very much.  
     Good evening, everyone.  We begin tonight "Keeping Them Honest" with the fight for Florida.  With the roundhouse punches that Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich are throwing in English and in Spanish to win this crucial state.  And new polling that shows how close the battle is right now.  
     They're going to face off in another debate tomorrow night right here on CNN along with Rick Santorum and Ron Paul, who's not really contesting Florida, but it's the race between Governor Romney and Speaker Gingrich that is dominating coverage.  New CNN/ORC polling tonight shows a statistical dead heat, 36 to 34 Romney -- to Gingrich. Well within the five-point margin of error.  
     Now that's from sampling done Sunday, Monday and Tuesday.  In other words, after the Gingrich victory on Saturday in South Carolina. But if you isolate just one of those days, Tuesday, after Governor Romney's sharp attacks in Monday night's debate, that data shows a nine-point advantage for him over the former speaker.  
     Now as always you can expect those numbers to change.  This race is changing fast.  Expect tomorrow night's debate to move the needle, as well.  Also, expect more of what we saw today.  Each candidate hammering the other.  
     The Gingrich campaign today stopped running this Spanish language radio spot accusing Mitt Romney of being, quote, "the most anti- immigration candidate in the race."  They took the ad down after Florida senator, Mark Rubio, who's Cuban-America and is yet to endorse a candidate, took strong exceptions to it calling it inaccurate and inflammatory.  
     The Romney campaign meantime also angling for the Latino vote with a Spanish language ad slamming Speaker Gingrich for being the ultimate Washington insider, specifically his relationship with the mortgage giant Freddie Mac.  And Romney has consistently described him as a former lobbyist for the mortgage giant and today at a town hall even the speaker heard from a heckler about it.  Listen.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Newt, you work for the people or Freddie Mac, Newt?       NEWT GINGRICH (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  I'm glad you asked that.  I work for the people.  Of course, I work for the people.  Now -- and by the way --  
     (CROSSTALK)
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (INAUDIBLE) our tax money --  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Get out of here.  
     GINGRICH:  Wait.  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Shame on you, Newt.  
     UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Get out of here.  
     (CROSSTALK)
     GINGRICH:  Now, now.  This is a free country and people are allowed to come and be noisy.  It's part of the American tradition.  I just want to say for the record, I don't know that this lady wants to listen but I will say to the rest of you for the record, if you go to the July 2008 "New York Times," you will see the only reference to my talking to Congress about Freddie Mac.  I told the House Republicans to vote no on giving them anymore money.  I was opposed to them getting anymore money.  And that is a fact.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  "Keeping Them Honest" tonight, though, was Speaker Gingrich a lobbyist?  Two members of Congress, Republicans, say he was.  They say Gingrich in fact lobbied them.  Tonight we've got new details from his contract with Freddie Mac.  First, though, listen to how he described his role back in November.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     GINGRICH:  I have never done any lobbying.  Every contract, it was written during the period when I was out of the office, specifically said I would do no lobbying, and I offer advice.  And my advice as a historian when they walked in and said to me, we are now making loans to people who have no credit history and have no record of paying back anything, but that's what the government wants us to do.  I said to them at the time, this is a bubble.  This is insane. This is impossible.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  That's consulting firm was paid $25,000 a month for years by Freddie Mac.  Now Governor Romney at Monday's debate ridiculed the notion that Freddie Mac would pay someone that kind of money for a historian's advice.  
     Just prior to that debate, the Gingrich campaign released the 2006 portion of the contract with Freddie which was notably vague about Gingrich's services.  Last night we got the 1999 contract which goes into much more detail.  On page 14, it describes in four bullet points a wide range of services Gingrich would provide.  The two that stand out are, quote, "to serve as adviser to Freddie Mac in the areas of strategic planning and public policy for Freddie Mac priority issues."  Also to, "Engage in discussions with Mitchell Delk and other senior officers of Freddie Mac relative to strategize on approaches to Freddie Mac business opportunities and challenges."  
     Mitchell Delk, by the way, was Freddie Mac's senior vice president of government relations.  In other words, their chief lobbyist.  So according to Open Secrets' database, he was indeed a registered lobbyist for Freddie Mac.  So Speaker Gingrich's contract specifies activities that are right at the intersection of Freddie Mac issues and public policy, and he's being specifically hired to work with Freddie's head lobbyist.  
     Whoever drew up the contract seems to recognize that people could get the impression that it's lobbying in everything but name.  So on that very same page, page 14, there's this.  Quote, "Nothing herein is or shall be construed as an agreement to provide lobbying services of any kind or engage in lobbying activities."  
     Kevin Madden joins us now.  He's a former Mitt Romney spokesman, and still a Romney supporter.  Also Kellyanne Conway, a pollster and senior adviser to the Gingrich campaign.  
     Kevin, could it be a mistake for the Romney campaign to push this Freddie Mac attack when their own campaign might get caught in the crossfire?  
     KEVIN MADDEN, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST:  Well, I think it's an important part of the contrast that you're going to try and place before voters in Florida.  Right now, I think voters are going to have to decide whether or not they want a nominee for the party and whether or not they want a president of the country who's been somebody who's been a Washington insider, somebody who's made their career in Washington, D.C., or whether or not they want someone like Governor Romney who's built his career in the private sector outside of Washington, D.C., and as a very successful governor and as somebody who headed the -- who headed the Olympics in 2002.  
     So those kind of contrasts at a time where voters are making that critical choice in a place like Florida and through the course of considerations that voters are going to go through the rest of this primary calendar, you know, it's an important distinction for the candidates to make and let the voters make that decision.  
     COOPER:  Kellyanne, the fact is, Newt Gingrich did work for Freddie Mac.  Romney did not.  Why keep this storyline going?  
     KELLYANNE CONWAY, SENIOR ADVISER TO THE GINGRICH CAMPAIGN:  I -- you're going to have to ask the Romney people that because they picked this fight.  After the wheels came off the inevitability train, Anderson, they needed to go back to the playbook.  There was nothing else in there.  They were supposed to win three of three contests.  It turns out he won one of three.       He was the only electable one.  He was the inevitable one.  With -- having broken the back of electability and showed that we can beat Obama the way Romney can beat Obama, we then wanted to have a level playing field on which to compete about the issues but now we're just absorbing all this incoming about Freddie Mac.  
     And you know the reports today, Anderson.  It turns out that in Governor Romney's tax returns, he and his wife have invested hundreds of thousands of dollars in mutual funds in government securities. That included Fannie and Freddie.  That was done after the government bailed them out.  
COOPER:  So is the -- by tarring him with Freddie Mac as well --  
     CONWAY:  No.  
     COOPER:  -- that it sort of nullifies whatever Gingrich --  
     CONWAY:  I think the whole thing is pathetic, to be frank with you, because I don't think one job was created, one house was saved from foreclosure, and one voter out there learned much about anything. 
     I do have to laugh, I mean, Kevin's an old friend, I respect him greatly.  But if I see one more person with images of the U.S. Capitol and Washington Monument behind their heads talking about what a Washington insider Newt Gingrich is.  The job for president of the United States is in Washington, D.C.  You have to have some type of relevant experience for that job.  You can't just parachute in.  
     And I noticed something, you know, by omission that Governor Romney and smart people around him like Kevin do all the time.  They never talk about his record of governor.  The fact is he doesn't just have a background in the private sector and the winter games.  He was governor for four years.  And he's running away from that record.  
     COOPER:  Kevin, we thought this race would tighten a bit in Florida.  The race is 23 points closer than it was two weeks ago. What happened to your candidate in your opinion?  
     MADDEN:  Well, look.  I think this always happens.  Kelly and I -- Kellyanne and I have been around enough of these campaigns to know that at the beginning we always know that no matter what you have of 22-point lead, 15-point lead, it's going to turn into a two, three- point lead.  These things always tighten as voters go through their considerations.  
     So we were not kidding as a campaign when we said very early on in this -- in this -- the earlier part of this year that this was going to be a very close race.  Kellyanne mentioned the idea of inevitability.  Nobody up in Boston, nobody working for Governor Romney across the country believed that this was an inevitable nomination.  
     COOPER:  Well, actually on your --  
     (CROSSTALK)     COOPER:  On your guy's Web site, I believe, it said about South Carolina, it said on Tuesday, the presidential candidate will be selected.  I was -- I remember seeing that on your Web page.  
     MADDEN:  There's not --  
     CONWAY:  Good.  
     MADDEN:  I tell you, there's another thing, too, Anderson, is there's never anything wrong with having a lot of confidence.  You have to have to confidence, you have to send those type of messages to your supporters.  But this is going to be a hard-fought race.  The polls that we're seeing right now from CNN and others, they're reflecting that very close race and that's why, you know, the -- everybody's down in Florida working very hard to reach as many voters as possible, to talk to them about Governor Romney's experience and also what -- what he would do to fix the economy.  
     COOPER:  So Kellyanne --  
     MADDEN:  Because that's what they care about.  
     COOPER:  Let's talk about these polls, too.  Because your -- Gingrich has -- if you look at the data closely, he has fallen off post Monday night's debate.  Why do you think that is?  
     CONWAY:  Well, we -- I think in -- on previous program, Anderson, you probably showed the charts that showed how much negative advertising is being spent by which campaigns and which super PACs. And it's not even close.  That is not a close race.  And it's not a tight race within the margin of error.  
     Governor Romney's campaign and super PACs are spending incredible amounts of money.  Again, not with positive ads about Governor Romney's record in Massachusetts.  And if you look at it you'll understand why he doesn't want to talk about that.  
     COOPER:  But given the -- that a lot of absentee votes are already in.  
     CONWAY:  Yes.  
     COOPER:  And they probably favor Romney given the --  
     CONWAY:  They definitely favor Romney.  
     COOPER:  The tide that it was when those votes were made.  Don't you guy have to do better than simply what you might otherwise be able to do on Tuesday night?  
     CONWAY:  Absolutely correct.  Absolutely correct.  That is the mathematical calculation we've made internally and ironically part of why Governor Romney benefited so greatly from those early absentee voters was because everybody was pushing this narrative that he was the inevitable nominee, that it was going to be over before South Carolina so people just leaned in to what they were told.  He can win. He can win.  
     You know, Anderson, the average voter doesn't ask himself who can win.  He asks himself who can lead.  And you're seeing a very different and expanded definition of leadership that's (INAUDIBLE).  
     COOPER:  Kevin, can your candidate, can Mitt Romney afford to lose Florida?  If he does not win Florida, what does that mean for his campaign?  
     MADDEN:  Well, look, I think we're going to do very well in Florida and we're going to compete very strongly there.  And I think that's going to be evident come Tuesday, but I think that this is a campaign that has been built to endure the long haul.  
     Ultimately, this is a delegate fight and what we're going to need is over 1500 delegates when we get to Tampa.  And the campaign is built around that.  So if we don't win Florida, though I think -- I feel very confident about our chances there, this is still a campaign that goes on to Arizona, Michigan, the Nevada caucuses.  
     COOPER:  But --  
     MADDEN:  And all the way through the summer.  
     COOPER:  If he doesn't win Florida, there would be shockwaves through that campaign, no?  
     MADDEN:  Look.  I think that the focus will remain on winning delegates all the way to Tampa.  That remains the case.  This is still a campaign that is -- has the organization, has the right message and has the resources to continue on.  
     COOPER:  Kellyanne Conway, I appreciate your time --  
     MADDEN:  And I can't emphasize enough, though, that we do feel good about Florida.  
     COOPER:  Kevin Madden --  
     CONWAY:  We feel even better.  
     COOPER:  You feel even better.  
     (LAUGHTER)
     COOPER:  Do you say if Romney doesn't win Florida, that -- this is huge?  
     CONWAY:  There's a huge shockwave because they keep on making excuses for each state that they don't win.  That that's not -- you know.  It's Florida is more diverse, et cetera, and it's more like the rest of the country.  The fact is that what will happen is an extension of 2010, Anderson, which is when the voters themselves say, you know what?  I'm not going to be told who can win and who can finally make up my own mind.  
     COOPER:  Kellyanne Conway, I appreciate it.  Kevin Madden, thanks.  
     MADDEN:  Great to be with you always.  
     COOPER:  Another quick reminder.  CNN is hosting the next GOP Florida debate.  It's going to be fascinating.  Tomorrow night, 8:00 Eastern Time followed by 10:00 Eastern by a special edition of 360. Even though applause is allowed at this debate, I understand.  
     Let us know what you think.  We're on Facebook, Google Plus, add us to your circles.  Follow me on Twitter @Andersoncooper.  I'll be tweeting tonight.  
     Up next, "Keeping Them Honest" on promises the president made last night.  Just one catch.  They sounded an awful lot like promises he made three years ago in lowering your mortgage payments and making sure lenders don't rip you off.  
     Also tonight, Bill Maher, he's both a supporter and critic of President Obama from the left.  We'll get his take on the State of the Union and the state of the Republican opposition.  
     First, let's check in with Isha -- Isha.  
     ISHA SESAY, CNN ANCHOR:  Anderson, it's perhaps the ultimate family tragedy.  Three sisters dead.  Their brother and parents charged with murder.  The killings allegedly in the name of god and honor and a twisted interpretation of Islam.  
     "Crime & Punishment" when 360 continues.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     COOPER:  President Obama made fresh promises in his State of the Union speech to go after mortgage related financial fraud and provide relief for homeowners facing foreclosures.  He outlined a new mortgage fraud investigation united and named a tough new sheriff, New York attorney general Eric Schneiderman to help run it as well.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:   And tonight I'm asking my attorney general to create a special unit, a federal prosecutors, and leading state attorney general, to expand our investigations into the abuse of lending and packaging of risky mortgages that led to the housing crisis.  This new unit will hold accountable those who broke the law, speed assistance to homeowners and help turn the page on an era of recklessness that hurt so many Americans.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  Well, the president also pushed for a way to give homeowners a break from big mortgage payments.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)     OBAMA:  I'm sending this Congress a plan that gives every responsible homeowner the chance to save about $3,000 a year on their mortgage by refinancing it at historically low rates.  No more red tape.  No more run around from the banks.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  But "Keeping Them Honest," both those proposals on mortgages and financial fraud don't just sound familiar, they're nearly identical to promises he's already made and programs he's already launched.  Take a lock.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     OBAMA:  The plan I'm announcing focuses on rescuing families who played by the rules and acted responsibly.  By refinancing loans for millions of families in traditional mortgages who are underwater or close to it by modifying loans for families stuck in subprime mortgages they can't afford as a result of skyrocketing interest rates or personal misfortune.  And by taking broader steps to keep mortgage rates low so that families can secure loans with affordable monthly payments.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  So that's President Obama back in 2009 talking about mortgage refinancing and here's his Attorney General Eric Holder the same year unveiling the Justice Department's new financial investigation unit.  
