
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired February 25, 2011 - 22:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Good evening, everyone.  
     Tonight in Tripoli, families are once again hiding in their homes, as gunmen rule the streets and the dictator, Moammar Gadhafi, and his sons continue to oversee the killing of unarmed protesters and continue to lie about what they are doing right now.  Gadhafi today telling Libyans they should be singing and dancing in the streets.  
     Well, I want to show you what his people are really doing in the streets and what's being done to them in those streets, as protests swept Tripoli today.  The Gadhafi regime, which claims it would never kill its own people, is killing its own people again.  More died today.  More will likely die tomorrow.  
     By all accounts, what we are witnessing, what we are watching, what Gadhafi and his henchmen are doing, is wholesale butchery.  Take a look at what happened today.  People leaving Friday prayers at a mosque in Tripoli were attacked.  The call had gone out to protest after prayers, but government forces were there, waiting with weapons. Watch.  The firing goes on and on, troops shooting not to warn or wound, we are told, but to kill.  
     You will hear shortly from a protester who was there in that crowd.  There is also new video coming in by the hour, just now.  We just discovered some footage.  We don't know the precise location, but we do know it was taken today, just as the person who took it was hit. 
     We don't know what happened to the person taking those images. We have no reliable casualty figures either from that incident or many others across Tripoli.  The terrible truth is, we simply do not know and we do not know what happens to the people in these video clips, to the badly wounded protesters like this man here, or elsewhere in this -- to this injured mercenary.
     This is a remarkable moment, though.  You see a mercenary, apparently a foreigner, in camouflage, the man on top of him apparently shielding him, covering him with his body, he and a small circle of protesters protecting this mercenary from the angry mob, protecting a man who just moments before was apparently roaming the streets with orders to kill, "Keeping Them Honest," orders from the man who showed up today in Tripoli's Green Square with his henchmen and a promise to open up his arsenals and turn Libya into a red flame. 
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)      MOAMMAR GADHAFI, LIBYAN LEADER (through translator):  We are prepared to break any aggression by the people, the armed people, and the time will come when all the ammunition warehouses will be open for the people to defend the country.  
     I came here in order to greet you, greet your courage, and I tell you to repel them.  Moammar Gadhafi is not a president, neither a king, nor a head of state, neither any high position, but the people love him because we are the glory with dignity.  
     Look, America.  Look.  Look to the Libyan people.  This is Moammar Gadhafi, among the Libyan people, among the masses of the Libyan people.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     COOPER:  He speaks about himself in the third person.  That was Gadhafi defiant.  There was also Gadhafi the clown.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     GADHAFI (through translator):  Here, youth, take your liberty efficient everywhere, in the streets.  Dance.  Sing.  Live with dignity.  Live with high morals.  Moammar Gadhafi is one of you. Dance.  Dance and sing and be happy.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     COOPER:  Dance and sing and be happy.  
     A killer promises to open up his arsenal to crush dissent.  Dance and sing and be happy, he says.  He hires outsiders to turn streets into killing grounds, and he tells his people to dance and sing and be happy.  
     We hear gunfire echoing throughout the night, and we are told, he says, that the people should dance and sing and be happy.  It's not just the father spreading lies and threats.  It's the son as well today.  His name is Saif.  And for years, he's traveled in the West in slick suits, giving speeches and shaking hands with dignitaries and well-known singers, pretending to be a man of civilization and reform.
     He's cast his lot with his father now, and claims everything is normal.  Take a look at this new interview he did, the son did, with CNN Turk, Saif first caught by a photographer with a smile and a wink right to the camera.  
     I got to tell you, when we first saw that, we couldn't frankly believe that.  There's blood in the streets, but after years of living and feasting on millions in oil money, being protected and pampered, this man is cocky and smug as ever.  We don't know what's going on in his head, but his words are defiant and disastrous.  
     SAIF AL-ISLAM GADHAFI, SON OF MOAMMAR GADHAFI:  We have plan A, plan B, plan C.  Plan A is to live and die in Libya.  Plan B is to live and die in Libya.  Plan C is to live and die in Libya.       COOPER:  He continued to blame outside terrorists for the uprisings.  And most shocking of all, he said the regime would never kill its own people.  
     He lies and he smiles and he winks.  Global pressure is starting to build today.  There's no doubt about that.  The hope is, it's the beginning of the end.  The fear is what Gadhafi might do between now and then.  
     And just in case there is anyone listening tonight who might believe the Gadhafis when they say they would never kill their own people, though I find it hard to believe anybody would believe it at this point, tonight, another voice, more proof, a man who says he saw people die today on the streets of Tripoli after Friday prayers.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
     COOPER:  What happened when you left -- what happened after mosques today?  
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  People were in groups walking down the streets.  And military came, and they tried to shoot at people.  And they weren't -- they wasn't shooting to kill -- they wasn't shooting to scare people off.  They were shooting to kill.  They killed people in front of my eyes, children, old men.  
     COOPER:  You saw people dying?  
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes, I saw -- I have seen people dying.  
     COOPER:  Who was doing the shooting?  
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Military, military people.  They call them revolutionary committees.  
     (CROSSTALK) 
     COOPER:  Was it special forces?  
     (CROSSTALK) 
     COOPER:  Yes, it wasn't special forces?  It was revolutionary committees?  
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes.  It was revolutionary committees.  They had AK-47.  And they were shooting at people and people were armed. We thought -- we started throwing rocks at them.  We have sticks, rocks.  People had knives. And they were shooting with machine guns.  
     COOPER:  What was it like for you to see this?  
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I was -- it was very, very -- I couldn't believe this.  People were running off all in every direction.  
     We want the United Nations and the United States to get -- to have a no-fly zone over Libya.  That's what we want to do.  We don't want any military intervention in Libya.  We want -- we don't want them in our country.  We can do this on our own.  
     I know that the United States doesn't give a damn about us.  I know that the United States, all they care about is the oil, oil prices going up.  And I know all they care about the oil.  I just want them to help these people.  They are dying every day.  And are arms -- they don't have weapons.  
     COOPER:  And you feel a no-fly zone would help you on the ground? 
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes, no-fly zone, because he would not be able to use -- to use planes.  He would not be able to use shoot us from the skies, because he can -- he can -- he can destroy the whole city in just minutes with the -- with airplanes.  
     Pilots have landed in Malta.  They have asked pilots to strike the city, but they refuse, because they couldn't strike their own people.  So they landed their planes in Malta.  So he's running out of options.  
     People are trying -- people -- more people joining the revolution every day.  Military officers, generals in the army are supporting the people.  He's losing his best supporters.  It's only a matter of time. 
     COOPER:  Thank you for talking to us.  I know it's a great risk. We will continue to talk with you in the days ahead.  Thank you.  
     (END VIDEOTAPE) 
     COOPER:  I want to bring in Ben Wedeman now in Libya, foreign affairs correspondent Jill Dougherty, and Professor Fouad Ajami of Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies, as well as the Hoover Institution.  
     Ben, we have seen these remarkable crowds today in Benghazi, where you are, rallying in support of people in Tripoli.  But as we have heard from the people in Tripoli, it is another story altogether. Are people in Benghazi in close contact with people in Tripoli?  And can they do anything to influence events on the ground there?  
     BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Very close contact.  Well, they're in very close contact.  
     In fact, people are constantly handing me phones of their relatives in Tripoli to talk to them, to gather information.  So the cell phones work.  So you can actually get in contact with Tripoli very easily.  
     They're doing what they can here.  In fact, we're hearing that there is a move to put together some sort of force that might be able to go help the people of Tripoli in fighting back against the regime. But the problem is that, whereas the regime in Tripoli has airplanes, tanks, armored personnel carriers and helicopters, there's very little in the way of heavy machinery, heavy weaponry that could be used against those forces here.  It's mostly RPGs, AK-47s some surface-to- air missiles, but not the kind of weaponry they would need to really bring down the regime.       And, also, it's a very long way.  It's more than 1,000 kilometers between Benghazi and Tripoli.  
     COOPER:  That was going to be my next question.  So, if it's 1,000 kilometers and some force is moving toward Tripoli, I'm assuming the Gadhafi regime would have advance notice and have an opportunity to attack anyone on that road.  
     WEDEMAN:  Yes.  And let's not forget that right smack-dab in the middle of that is the city of Surt on the Mediterranean coast, which is Gadhafi-controlled territory.  
     We have seen that gradually the cities along the coast have fallen to the anti-Gadhafi forces, but there is a long stretch of very thinly populated territory that divides eastern from western Libya.  
     COOPER:  Jill, tonight, President Obama signed an executive order on sanctions which targets the Gadhafi government, while protecting the assets that belong to the people of Libya.  That's a quote.  
     How is that supposed to work?  
     JILL DOUGHERTY, CNN FOREIGN AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT:  We just got a briefing a few minutes ago from a treasury official, Stuart Levey.
     And essentially any of the assets that are held first by the regime -- and the regime includes -- and they specifically are named here -- Moammar Gadhafi and four of his children -- any assets that are held in U.S. financial institutions or U.S.-controlled financial institutions anywhere in the world are frozen.  
     So, again, it has to do with the regime and then also the government, assets by the central bank and that sovereign wealth fund -- that's where all the oil money goes -- that is all frozen.  It's held in those institutions.  And then it will be eventually returned, they say, to the Libyan people.  
     We asked, how much money is there?  And they didn't say specifically, but they said it is substantial sums, by any account.  
     COOPER:  Fouad, do sanctions make any difference whatsoever to what is happening in Tripoli?  
     FOUAD AJAMI, PROFESSOR OF MIDDLE EASTERN STUDIES, JOHNS HOPKINS SCHOOL OF ADVANCED INTERNATIONAL STUDIES:  No, we have seen this movie before about the sanctions.  
     We must remember that Gadhafi endured a generation, 15 years or so, of sanctions.  We also have another case of sanctions which our viewers will remember very well, which is Saddam Hussein, who endured sanctions from 1991 to 2003, when President George W. Bush decapitated his regime.  
     The sanctions never worked.  Anyone with money, anyone with huge amounts of money, as Gadhafi does, can break these sanctions, can bust them with great ease.  And one thing we know about the sanctions, to pass sanctions, and if you bring the sanctions -- particularly if you come to the Security Council, and do a round of sanctions in the Security Council, well, there you need the Russians and the Chinese.  
     And the only kinds of resolutions and provisions that would pass in the United Nations are really mild.  These sanctions really don't -- this is not what this conflict now is about.  It's a fight between -- it's a tale of two cities, if you will.  Tripoli is fighting for its life.  Benghazi is a relatively free city.  And this fight between the new Libya living on hope now and the old Libya living on terror is a fight to the finish.  And the sanctions really don't apply to it.  
     COOPER:  I was sitting there watching Gadhafi's son, Saif, who I guess is the most presentable of all the thuggish sons and the most sort of Westernized just most polished, and -- who does try to represent himself and has for years tried to represent him to the world as the new Libya.  
     But he is as thuggish, in the end, Fouad, as the representatives of the old regime.  
     AJAMI:  Well, I think these people, the house of Gadhafi, they have crossed the Rubicon.  It's over for them.  They now live in a different world.  There are no more meetings for them in New York with the glitterati.  They can't come to universities and be wined and dined.  
     This is over.  They are now fighting for their dominion in the only primitive way they know.  And, if you allow me, in many ways, I think of this fight -- I have been thinking about this in the last few days.  There was -- this is a kind of -- this is almost the Spanish Civil War in the '30s.  This is the Spanish Civil War, with Gadhafi playing the role of Franco, and a free country, a liberal country, a humane country, facing the guns of a very brutal regime, willing to kill its own people to survive.  
     COOPER:  And do you think he is able to hold on for a long time, or do you think are we talking days?  
     AJAMI:  Well, you know, I don't know.  I think this is a question that one really can't answer with any confidence.  
     You can see that all the assets of the regime are collapsing around him.  You can see his diplomats quitting on him.  And we don't know what he will decide.  I think, sometimes, we romanticize these guys, like Saddam, like Gadhafi.  
     We take them at their word, when they say I fight to the finish, I will die on the soil of my own country.  We all remember that amazing scene when our forces flushed out Saddam from his spider hole and he came out without firing a shot.  And he came out saying:  I'm Saddam Hussein.  I'm the president of Iraq and I'm willing to negotiate.  
     The same may be true of Gadhafi and his children.  These are not people bred to fight and die.  You never fight and die if you have massive accounts and bank accounts overseas.  You go and unite with the funds and the wealth you plundered.  
     COOPER:  We are going to have more with Ben and Jill and Fouad in a moment.  
     A quick reminder:  The live chat is up and running right now at AC360.com.  
     Up next: horror stories from Americans who finally got out of Libya.  Remember, they were stuck on that ferry, a nightmarish wait day and night on that ferry in Tripoli Harbor, guns crackling all around them.  You will hear directly from them.  
     And, later, inside Gadhafi's mind, as close as we can get, rare perspective from a man who was by his side for years, worked as a translator for Gadhafi.  I talked to him about what that was like and how he says he was constantly living in fear.  We will also talk to a former CIA officer with sources in the intelligence community in Libya.  And he will tell us what he's hearing from them.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     COOPER:  People in Libya say -- and when we talk to them on the phone every day -- and we talk to numbers of them every day on the phone -- they say they want the world to know the truth about what they are seeing, about what they are going through.  Many want outside help, but they don't want others to liberate them.  
     We hear that time and time again.  They want to liberate themselves.  
     I spoke with another protester earlier tonight.  And he told me this revolution has to belong to the people who are fighting for it.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  One thing I'm happy about right now is that we are we are taking things into our own hands.  And, I mean, unlike -- with all due respect to the Iraqis, somebody came in to give them democracy.  And, you know, this way, this is like we earned it, hopefully, when we do get it...
     (CROSSTALK) 
     COOPER:  And that's what you want; you want democracy?  
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes.  Yes.  And we want to earn it by ourselves.  
     (END VIDEOTAPE) 
     COOPER:  They want to earn it, another voice telling the story from Tripoli -- 168 others are beginning to tell their own stories from Malta tonight, Americans who finally made it out.  The weather cleared.  Their ferry left Tripoli Harbor and about six hours later docked in the Maltese port of Valletta.  They arrived with stories, some of them horror stories, of what they had seen and lived there.     Ivan Watson was there to greet them.  He joins us now from Malta.
     Ivan, you saw the ferry come into the port today in Malta today. What did the passengers say?  What was their mood like?  
     IVAN WATSON, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  It was very strange to see a destination normally for hundreds of thousands of tourists from cruise ships and now it's part of an exodus of people fleeing Libya right now.  
     And there have been a number of boats now arriving throughout the night, Anderson, here.  The people we talked to, they came out.  They said most of them had spent days and nights trapped inside their houses, hiding from the gunfire out in the streets, unable to connect with the outside world, because the Internet had been shut off and because the telephones had been shut off as well.
     You remember those strategies that were used by Hosni Mubarak also in Egypt to the east of here.  Take a listen to what one young woman had to say to us, an American of Libyan descent who traveled with eight family members to Malta today.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     YUSEF TEKBALI, EVACUEE:  Well, we were in our house for four days without leaving our house, because we heard gunshots outside, machine guns, I'm pretty sure, protesters clashing with police, stories we were hearing from friends about complete massacres of their neighborhoods, things like that.  
     But I think what really, really just kind of drove us to leave was the night Gadhafi gave his speech and threatened... 
     WATSON:  This is Saif al-Islam, the son, or...  
