
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired February 15, 2011 - 22:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  And good evening, everyone.
     Tonight:  Should a Confederate general be honored on a license plate in Mississippi?  He was also a slave trader and the first grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan.  Supporters say they're simply honoring a great general and historical figure.  But are they also airbrushing very real, very painful American history?  Both sides of a bitter debate square off tonight.  
     Also tonight, if you thought the battle over President Obama's birth certificate was over, you haven't been paying attention to what is going on in a number of states.  New state legislation influenced by the birther movement.  Tonight, a Montana lawmaker says he has no idea if President Obama was born in America.  We're "Keeping Them Honest." 
     And trying to keep Iran's oppressive rulers honest, as they push uprisings abroad, but try to crush it at home.  
     And that's where we begin tonight with the brutal crackdown in Iran and the courage of a protester speaking out, a voice the government of Iran wants to silence, a voice belonging to a young woman who is risking her life tonight to get her message out to you.  
     We're calling her Sarah.  Her fellow protesters have been arrested.  At least one is dead, shot apparently by Iranian government agents, shot by a government that is as brutal as it is hypocritical.  
     If you what about to see what the Iranian government is like, what its Parliament is like, take a look at this.  They're chanting death to Mousavi, death to Karroubi, two main opposition leaders in Iran.  Now, that looks like just an unruly mob, but is the Iranian Parliament chanting death to two Iranians, baying for blood.  Can you imagine American lawmakers doing this, being led in their chants by a religious figure?  
     No matter what you believe about our Congress, it's hard to imagine this.  In Iran, however, this is the reality of the regime. Parliament members also signing a statement saying of their opponents -- quote -- "We believe the people have lost their patience and demand capital punishment."  
     Well, as we saw yesterday, plenty of people in Iran have lost their patience, but they have lost it with the government.  They have been taking to the streets in Tehran and cities across Iran.  And the Iranian regime has been cracking down hard.  This was a protest yesterday.  
     Reports are upwards of 1,000 people have been arrested, though hard numbers are impossible to come by because the regime is shutting out foreign media.  They don't want you to see this, but it's flooding out on YouTube.  
     So they're cutting off the Internet and cell phone service, trying under the cover of media darkness to crush exactly the kind of uprising that only days ago Iranian President Ahmadinejad was praising elsewhere.  That's right.  On Friday he said -- quote -- "It's your right to be free.  It's your right to express your will and sovereignty and choose the type of government and the rulers."
     He was talking about Egypt, though, speaking out against the dictatorship there.  Apparently that's only OK in someone else's dictatorship.  
     Today on state television, Ahmadinejad didn't even deign to recognize that the outcry in his own country is legitimate and homegrown, using almost the same words Egypt's rulers used to attack that country's pro-democracy protesters.  Ahmadinejad blamed the demonstrations on -- quote -- "enemies" trying to -- quote -- "tarnish the Iranian nation's brilliance."
     The hypocrisy not lost on President Obama today.
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:     I find it ironic that you've got the Iranian regime pretending to celebrate what happened in Egypt, when in fact they have acted in direct contrast to what happened in Egypt by gunning down and beating people who were trying to express themselves peacefully in Iran. 
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     COOPER:  In Iran, this is how the regime handles peaceful protests and how it's handled dissent for years.  Take a look.  This is how police reacted to protesters back in December of 2009.  
     These were people marching in memory of another protester, Neda Agha Soltan, who fell that summer, like them, shot after demonstrating peacefully against a stolen election, a police state doing what police states do, then and now.  
     Both then and now, though, even when they're not safe on the streets, people wait until the sun goes down.  This video was shot last night, voices crying out in the night, people literally shouting it from the rooftops: "God is great.  Death to the dictator.  God is great."
     Their voices are being heard.  And tonight on this program, a young woman adds her voice to those cries in the night.  She's a student.  We're only calling her Sarah because the penalty for what she is about to do could be death.  She's in Iran and she took part in the protests.  
     I spoke to her a short time ago.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
     COOPER:  You went to the demonstrations.  What did you see?  
     "SARAH", PROTESTER:  We didn't want to see any violence, so none of us said anything against the authority or the government.  And we started OUR rally.  And we started from one of the main squares in (INAUDIBLE).  As we moved forward, the guards started to kind of hold us back.  
     COOPER:  The Revolutionary Guards?  
     SARAH:  Yes.  
     And -- but we kept on moving forward.  And from some point after (INAUDIBLE) square, we could not proceed.  I mean, we would try -- I mean, we tried our best, but we couldn't proceed.  
     COOPER:  Were you scared to go in the streets yesterday?  
     SARAH:  Oh, yes.  And we didn't know what was coming, so we were scared.  But when I saw so many people being back like in the old days, that was really exciting.  
     COOPER:  And, at some point, was there violence?  
     SARAH:  Well, yes.  As they did not let us proceed, we had to kind of fight to make our way.  But, at some point, we couldn't -- I mean, there was too much violence, so we couldn't proceed.  
     COOPER:  We have heard reports of police using tear gas, using batons to beat demonstrators, making arrests.  Did you see any of that?  
     SARAH:  Oh, yes, that's routine.  That's the least we expected.  
     COOPER:  So, you saw that?  You saw police beating people?  
     SARAH:  Yes.  And I was with someone who got beaten.  And so I saw it, yes.  
     COOPER:  And you know somebody who got killed?  
     SARAH:  Yes.  Unfortunately, one of our friends from the University of Art, Sane Jaleh, was killed yesterday.  And we are -- I mean, we have entered a phase of serious street mourning.
     COOPER:  What do you want people around the world to know about what is happening in Iran tonight?  
     SARAH:  I can't speak for others.  I mean, I can speak for myself.  I can say that I'm just an ordinary person.  And I'm fighting for my rights.  And we really love seeing these freedom trends around the world.  And I'm so glad my people are always there.  
     COOPER:  The government in Iran praised the demonstrations in Egypt, praised the protesters in Egypt.  But when you protest in the streets there, they crack down.  What does that tell you?  
     SARAH:  Oh.  Well, maybe they're not being honest.  That's what I see.  I mean, from my own point of view, my personal point of view, they're not being honest.  
     COOPER:  Are you scared to talk?  I mean, you're being very brave to even talk to us right now.  
     SARAH:  Yes, I am scared to talk.  But I really want to be doing this.  My -- one of our friends was killed.  He was like 26.  And that could be me.  
     I mean, he was shot randomly.  And I was planning to go to that (INAUDIBLE) square where he was shot.  And I just didn't get there.  I was stopped by the guards.  I mean, you could -- I'm kind of identifying with him.  
     COOPER:  You feel like that could have been you?  
     SARAH:  Yes.  And he was our friend.  They're not letting -- there's a Persian expression I'm translating to you, because I don't know the equivalent, but we are not allowing his blood to go to waste. 
     I mean, my friends knew him personally.  And he was one of us, one of the Green Movement.  And that's why I'm doing this.  I mean, I'm doing this for him.  
     COOPER:  The Iranian government is saying that you are agitators, that you are being influenced by foreigners, that this is not a real movement for freedom.  
     What do you say to them?  
     SARAH:  I'm talking for myself.  I know my own notions, my own motivations.  
     This is totally self-initiated.  And I'm -- I mean, I'm just -- I'm someone ordinary.  I went there.  I voted for the person I thought that was right.  And then it came out that -- I don't know.  It -- I'm not an expert, but that sounded like a fraud, because everybody... 
     COOPER:  Sarah?  
     (END VIDEOTAPE) 
     COOPER:  We lost connection with her.  
     As we mentioned at the top, Iran is tightly controlling media access to the country.  
     Reza Sayah has been monitoring developments, working his sources from the outside.  And he joins us now from Islamabad, Pakistan.       As we said earlier, very difficult to do any reporting out of Iran, Reza, at this point.  As far as we know, the streets were pretty quite today, right?  
     REZA SAYAH, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, we spoke to some people in Tehran and they said no sign of protests.  They did see hundreds of security forces patrolling the streets.  
     The next time we could see something is Wednesday, tomorrow. Government news agencies have reported that two passerbys were killed by protesters on Monday.  And one of them is going to have a funeral on Wednesday.  But opposition Web sites are saying they were not passerbys; they were protesters killed by security forces on Monday.  
     And members of the Green Movement say they might show up to this funeral on Wednesday, which sets the stage for another possible face- off tomorrow, Anderson.  
     COOPER:  Reza, you have reported there.  We see this video of the Parliament literally baying for the blood of two opposition leaders, chanting, you know, death, that they should be put to death, and put on trial and then put to death.  It's kind of a remarkable scene.  
     When you're reporting there, how does the state crack down on the protesters?  We have seen these what looked like secret police or guys with batons.  Who are they?  
     SAYAH:  Yes, these are members of the Basij, all of these security forces led by Iran's Revolutionary Guard.  
     And I have got to say, one of the most glaring differences between what we saw in Egypt and what we're seeing in Iran over the past couple of years is the crackdown by the government.  I don't think it even compares.  You look at Egypt, you had the military essentially stay on the sidelines and watch.  And the state security apparatus, the police in Egypt, was either outwitted or overwhelmed by the opposition movement.  
     Then you go to Iran, the crackdown led by the Revolutionary Guard.  This is a security force that has stakes and influences in all facets of Iran's life, the economy, its natural resources, politics, government.  So when it's fighting the opposition movement, it's fighting for its hold on power.  And I think that explains why the crackdowns in Iran are much more brutal, much more repressive -- Anderson.  
     COOPER:  And the video we were just looking at, that was a video that was posted onto YouTube.  And it reportedly shows the crowd turning on what they believe is one of these -- these secret police members, kind of pro-government militia members who they believe -- and you see the crowd actually beating that person.  
     I mean, this is really round two for the Green Movement protests that they had in 2009, isn't it?  
     SAYAH:  It is, because they exploded onto the scene two years ago after the disputed presidential elections.  But you have to talk about the impact of the Egyptian uprising on the Iranian opposition movement.  
     And I think these are two movements that right now are feeding off one another.  If you talk to supporters of Egypt's uprising, they are well aware of what Iran's opposition movement accomplished in 2009.  If you look at a video clip of Wael Ghonim, the poster boy of the Egyptian uprising, the activist, look at his left wrist, and he oftentimes wears a green wristband, the trademark color of Iran's opposition movement.  
     And if you talk to supporters of Iran's opposition movement, they're well aware of what Egypt accomplished.  I think a lot of people in Iran's opposition movement are saying this should have been us, this could have been us.  And it's playing a big role in motivating them to come back to the streets of Tehran.  
     COOPER:  Well, we continue to watch it.
     Reza Sayah, appreciate it tonight from Pakistan.  
     There's some disturbing news tonight about one of our colleagues, Lara Logan, of CBS News.  You probably heard this.  CBS said today that Logan was brutally attacked in Cairo's Tahrir Square on Friday after Mubarak stepped down.  She was there for a "60 Minutes" story with her crew in a mob of about 200 people.  
     Here's part of what CBS said today -- quote -- "In the crush of the mob, she was separated from her crew.  She was surrounded and suffered a brutal and sustained sexual assault and beating before being saved by a group of women and an estimated 20 Egyptian soldiers. She reconnected with the CBS team, returned to her hotel, and returned to the United States on the first flight the next morning.  She's currently in the hospital recovering.  There will be no further comment from CBS News.  And correspondent Logan and her family respectfully request privacy at this time."
     Lara Logan is in our thoughts and our prayers tonight.  
     As always, let us know what you think.  The live chat is up and running at AC360.com.
     Up next tonight: a lawmaker who says his legislation has nothing to do with President Obama.  He just wants presidential candidates to prove they were born here.  We will ask him why the proof of President Obama's citizenship, however, isn't proof enough for him.  His answers may surprise you.  We're "Keeping Them Honest."   
     And later, a brilliant Civil War commander, but also a leader of the KKK and a brutal slave trader, why does one Southern group want to celebrate him on a license plate?  Should he be honored with a license plate?  A sharp debate tonight.  
     First, let's check in on some other stories with Isha Sesay -- Isha.     ISHA SESAY, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  New developments to tell you about in the trial of Michael Jackson's physician, Conrad Murray.  When we come back, I will explain why the judge in this case now has to decide whether there's conflict of interests for one member of Murray's defense team -- that and more just ahead.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
     COOPER:  Well, halfway into the Obama administration, and the birther movement will not go away.  Nor will the push for legislation inspired by it, even though many of the people behind it deny it has anything to do with President Obama.  We're "Keeping Them Honest" in this segment.  
     Some quick background.  A significant number of Americans still believe that President Obama was not born in this country, and some politicians aren't doing too much to dissuade them.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
     REP. JOHN BOEHNER (R-OH), SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE:  It's not my job to tell the American people what to think.  Our job in Washington is to listen to the American people.  Having said that, the state of Hawaii has said that he was born there; that's good enough for me. The president says he's a Christian.  I accept him at his word. 
     (END VIDEO CLIP) 
     COOPER:  House Speaker John Boehner over the weekend on "Meet the Press."  Both he and Majority Leader Eric Cantor refusing to take on birthers directly in their own party -- 11 states now weighing bills that in some form or other require presidential candidate to present proof of citizenship in a state to get on the ballot in that state.  
     And, in Montana, State Representative Bob Wagner, who you're going to hear from in just a moment, is pushing a bill that would require the candidate to produce a copy of a birth certificate.  He says it's not about President Obama.  But he also says he doesn't know if President Obama is a citizen or not.  
     The last time CNN polled Americans, 27 percent said the president either definitely or probably was not born in the country.  Among Republicans, that number rises to 41 percent.  And other recent polling puts the numbers even higher.  
     Now, I just want to show you some facts, however.  Here's the president's official certificate of live birth from the state of Hawaii.  This is the official document from the state of Hawaii.  It's what they send you when you ask for a birth certificate.  It's valid at the Passport Office as a form of identification.  It's got the signature stamp and raised seal.  
     Hawaii's Republican governor when the controversy erupted, Linda Lingle, said -- quote -- "It's been established he was born here." She says she had her health director actually go and view the original electronic copy of the birth certificate in their records.       And here's the birth announcement ran in both Honolulu newspapers.  There you see it.  Today, on another network, a reporter for one of them saying the papers back then would get their birth information directly from the state health department.  
     So, those are the facts. 
     Now, in a moment, senior legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin is going to talk about the constitutional facts the supporters of birther legislation appear to be getting wrong, in his opinion.  
     But, first, my conversation with Montana State lawmakers Bob Wagner.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
     COOPER:  Representative Wagner, do you believe that President Obama is a citizen of the United States?  
     BOB WAGNER (R), MONTANA STATE REPRESENTATIVE:  Well, I don't really -- I'm not really qualified to say whether I believe he is or not.  It's irrelevant to me.  
