
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired October 5, 2011 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Good evening, everyone.  Thanks, Erin.  
     We are sticking, obviously, with the breaking news.  Truly heartbreaking for the tens of millions of people who own Apple products, who think of themselves as fans not just customers.  Apple co-founder, chief wizard and former CEO Steve Jobs has died at 56. The cause of death not yet known.  Though of course he had been battling against cancer for years.  
     Just moments ago, Apple put out a statement, saying, quote, "Apple lost a visionary and creative genius and the world lost an amazing human being."  They went on to say, "Those of us who have been fortunate enough to know and work with Steve have lost a dear friend and an inspiring mentor.  Steve," the statement concludes, "leaves behind a company that only he could have built and his spirit will forever be the foundation of Apple."  
     Go to the Apple site and this is what you see.  Steve Jobs.  His death came the day after Apple unveiled a new line of products with the kind of show-and-tell he once was famous for.  A lot of talk about that tonight.  We're going to start with a look back at the life of Steve Jobs with Dan Simon.  
     (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
     STEVE JOBS, APPLE FOUNDER AND CEO:  Today Apple is going to reinvent the phone.  
     DAN SIMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Steve Jobs was a modern-day Thomas Edison.  
     JOBS:  You can do multi-finger gestures on it and, boy, have we patented it.  
     SIMON:  He didn't have a patent on his own look but he was rarely seen without tennis shoes, Levi's and a black shirt.  He was legendary for his flair and showmanship.  
     JOBS:  Amazing.  The screen literally float in midair.  
     SIMON:  Stephen Paul Jobs was born in San Francisco.  His mother, an unwed college student, put him up for adoption.  He developed an early interest in computers.  Going to after-school lectures at Hewlett-Packard.  After high school, he attended Reed College but only for one semester.  At just 20 years old, he started Apple Computer in his garage with friend Steve Wozniak.  
     JOBS:  We worked hard and in 10 years Apple had grown from just the two of us in a garage into a $2 billion company with over 4,000 employees.  
     SIMON:  That was Jobs in 2005.  Giving the commencement address at Stanford University.  
     JOBS:  You have to trust in something.  Your gut, destiny, life, karma, whatever.  Because believing that the dots will connect down the road will give you the confidence to follow your heart, even when it leads you off the well-worn path.  And that will make all the difference.  
     SIMON:  In 1984, Apple introduced a machine that changed our lives forever.  The Macintosh.  Revolutionary because it made computers easier to use.  It had a funny little thing called a mouse that allowed users to change fonts.  But the Mac was expensive and sales were sluggish.  In 1985, Steve Jobs was forced out of Apple. But it turned out he was just warming up.  
     UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I'm Buzz Light Year, space ranger.  
     SIMON:  In 1986, he both Pixar Animation Studios which later produced hits like "Toy Story."  He also started a computer company called Next.  
     JOBS:  I hope you get a chance to look at this a little later. It's the most beautiful print and circuit board I've ever seen in my life.  
     SIMON:  The technology was so innovative that in a twist of fate, Apple bought Next and Steve Jobs went back to work for the company he started.  
     His second act, considered one of the greatest CEO tenures of all time.  
     JOBS:  It's called the iPod touch.  
     SIMON:  Who knew a computer company would change how we listened to music?  Steve Jobs introduced the iconic iPod.  
     JOBS:  Just slide it across.  Boom.  
     SIMON:  The iPhone, and later what some believe would be his grandest achievement, the iPad.  
     JOBS:  That's what it looks like.  Very thin.  
     SIMON:  Apple dropped the computer from its name to reflect the company's expansion into consumer electronics.  
     JOBS:  Now I'm going to take this morning and talk about the iPhone.       SIMON:  In recent years, Jobs no longer appeared his usual self. He was noticeably thin and frail.  And investors and Apple faithful grew alarmed because of Jobs' past struggle with pancreatic cancer.  
     In 2009 Jobs revealed he had a liver transplant after taking a six-month leave of absence.  But he returned to the stage with his usual vigor.  
     JOBS:  It is our new MacBook Air and we think it's the future of notebooks.  
     SIMON:  Eventually, though, his struggle with ill health led him to step down as CEO.  In a letter to the Apple board of directors, jobs wrote, "I have always said if there ever came a day when could I no longer meet my duties and expectations as Apple CEO, I would be the first to let you know.  Unfortunately, that day has come."  
     "I have made some of the best friends of my life at Apple," he added.  "And I thank you for all the many years of being able to work alongside you."  
     Steve Jobs' legacy can be found in his devices.  Long anesthetics and attention to detail.  He followed his heart, and with his technology --  
     JOBS:  We are calling it iPhone.  
     SIMON:   -- changed the world.  
     (END VIDEOTAPE)
     COOPER:  Truly one of the most remarkable innovators of our time. 
     Dan Simon join us now along with 360 MD Sanjay Gupta.  
     Pancreatic cancer.  That's what he had, Sanjay?  
     DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  It was pancreatic cancer.  They think it was a variant of pancreatic cancer. It was a type of neuroendoctrine tumor.  But basically the pancreas makes all sorts of different hormones including insulin.  The cells that make insulin, they think it was a tumor of those cells.  
     But pancreatic cancer, as you may know, Anderson, is a -- it's a tough, tough cancer.  Just haven't made great progress in terms of treatments, let alone cures for this.  
     COOPER:  If -- why would he had a liver transplant if he had pancreatic cancer?  
     GUPTA:  It's a good question.  I mean there are -- there's been some studies recently.  It's not a commonly done thing, and you remember, he sort of had this done literally, you know, by night.  And he went to Memphis, Tennessee, he told no one about it, got this liver transplant.       And even among the medical community, it's a bit of a controversial thing.  There's some data to suggest that doing a liver transplant can help with how well a pancreatic cancer is amenable to treatment, how well someone can recover overall.  And in his case, it may have provided some benefit.  Because, again, the statistics for pancreatic cancers across the board are terrible statistics, 20 percent, a few years survival.  
     COOPER:  Just a few years survival.  
     GUPTA:  Just a few years survival.  And I think, you know, he was -- he talked to his company in 2004 about his diagnosis but I think he was actually diagnosed in 2003.  You may remember he spent about a year at that point not getting conventional therapy.  He was somebody who spent a lot of time traveling around the world and thought he should -- he could treat this with herbs and nontraditional therapies. But in 2004, he started this conventional therapy in earnest.  
     COOPER:  We're joined on the phone by Leander Kahney, he's the editor and publisher Cultofmac.com.  He's the author of "Inside Steve's Brain."  
     Leander, thanks for being with us on what is obviously a very sad day for those who knew and loved Steve Jobs and also for all of us who have come to rely on his products.  
     What are your thoughts on hearing of his passing?  
     LEANDER KAHNEY, EDITOR AND PUBLISHER, CULTOFMAC.COM (via phone): Well, yes, I was really shocked.  Even though, you know,  it was -- it was inevitable.  It was going to come soon and we all knew that.  But I'm still shocked, yes, and upset by the news.  
     COOPER:  What do you think it was about him that enabled him to think in the way he did?  I mean that enabled him to create things that we now just take for granted but we couldn't have imagined before they -- before he revealed them on that stage, standing in that black turtleneck?  
     KAHNEY:  Yes, you know, that's -- that was sort of the $64 million question.  It's the question about where does -- you know, such an incredible innovation come from.  But he was focused on the experience, of using a product, and his -- you know his goals are very different than the rest of the tech industry.  And he wanted to make technology -- advanced technology, which is usually complex, he wanted to make it simple and easy to use for ordinary consumer, even kids.  
     And that was -- you know always his goal from the very beginning of his career.  And it -- you know, and because of that, it allowed -- you know, he gave him a focus on things like design and ease of use. And he wasn't willing -- he was such a perfectionist that he wasn't willing to put something out half done.  So he would often go down a path, you know, making lots and lots of prototype, investing a lot of times many years in developing products until, you know, they were perfect and this is how he was able to come up with the -- you know, the string of amazing inventions.       COOPER:  His younger life was really extraordinary.  I mean, the -- not only the accomplishments at 21 with Steve Wozniak but even before that, he -- I understand he even called up the head of Hewlett- Packard when he was a teenager in order to get some spare parts and ended up getting a summer job with them.  
     KAHNEY:  Right.  He always had a lot of nerve.  And you know that was one of the other things, too.  I mean he was always -- he always went for the best.  He was a bit of a snob really, a bit of an elitist, and he always wanted the best.  That's why he went to the head of the biggest company in Silicon Valley at the time.  
     But that's why he also ended up recruiting, you know, sort of the best architects to build the Apple Store, the best programs, to Mac OS operating system the best hardware engineers to make his computers. The best designer by Johnny Ive.  You know it's a shortcut to get, you know, excellence when you're working on something.  
     COOPER:  When he did come out with that first computer, I mean just explain the importance of that and just how revolutionary it was at the time.  
     KAHNEY:  Well, yes, the Apple II was the first computer designed for ordinary --you know ordinary consumers.  And either computers were a thing that big companies bought and they needed an entire -- you know massive room or a warehouse to put it in and they needed a team of operators to run it, or you bought a bunch of chips in a kit and you had to solve it together yourself on your -- you know your workshop table.  
     So he was the first person to say, OK, we're going to make something that someone can just pull out of a box and plug it in and be ready to go.  And you know it's kind of pretty revolutionary.  No one else was doing this at the time.  And other PCs were, like I said, were built from chips.  
     COOPER:  We're --  
     KAHNEY:  You know, this is his agenda and -- this is how he got interested in design and ease of use.  
     COOPER:  We're getting actually three new statements about Steve Jobs' death.  This is a statement by Apple's board of directors.  I'm just going to read it to you off my computer.  
     "We're deeply saddened to announce that Steve Jobs passed away today.  Steve's brilliance, passion and energy were the source of countless innovations that enrich and improve all our lives.  The world is immeasurably better because of Steve.  His greatest love was for his wife Laurene and his family.  Our hearts go out to them and to all who were touched by his extraordinary gifts".  
     The CEO of Apple Tim Cook today sent the following e-mail to all his employees.  
     "Team, I have some very sad news to share with all of you.  Steve passed away earlier today.  Apple has lost a visionary and creative genius, and the world has lost an amazing human being.  Those of us who have been fortunate enough to know and work with Steve have lost a dear friend and an inspiring mentor.  Steve leaves behind a company that only he could have built and his spirit will forever be the foundation of Apple.  
     "We are planning a celebration of Steve's extraordinary life for Apple employees.  It will take place soon.  If you'd like to share your thoughts, memories and condolences," and then it gives an address for Apple employees.  It says -- goes on to say, "No words can adequately express our sadness at Steve's death or our gratitude for the opportunity to work with him.  We will honor his memory by dedicating ourselves to continuing the work he loves so much."  
     And then Steve Jobs' family -- this is the final statement we received -- released this statement.  "Steve died peacefully today surrounded by his family.  In his public life, Steve was known as a visionary.  In his private life, he cherished his family.  We're thankful to the many people who shared their wishes and prayers during the last year of Steve's illness.  A Web site will be provided for those who wish to offer tributes and memories.  We are grateful for the support and kindness of those who share our feelings for Steve. We know many of you will mourn with us and we ask that you respect our privacy during our time of grief."  
     In terms of the business of Apple, I mean,, what happens now? The company obviously has a new CEO.  Does the innovation continue? Does Steve -- without Steve Jobs, can Apple continue in the same way, the same rate that it has?  
     KAHNEY:  I don't think it's going to have the same magic.  It's not going to have -- you know we saw that yesterday with the release of the iPhone 4S.  And you know Cook doesn't have that same charisma, the same enthusiasm, the same passion, for the products that Jobs did. 
     You know on the one hand, it's got such incredible momentum that nothing is going to stop it.  It's a huge runaway train.  And they've got products in the pipeline for, you know, at least two generations. So for several years.  And I don't think anything is going to stop that.  
     But the other thing, too, is that I think in the last 10 years, I mean Jobs -- you know, no one knew that Jobs was such a great businessman.  He was a really great CEO.  And he's really made that company in his image.  It does things the Steve Jobs way.  And I think, you know, that's really important.  He's got a great team. They've got great process.  And I think that's a lot of (INAUDIBLE) saying.  I think there's a really good chance.  I'd say 75/25, you know, that they will be able to continue his legacy, just by continue to do things the way they have been doing the last 10 years.  
     COOPER:  Leander, what -- after Steve Jobs basically invented the personal computer, as you said, or the first personal computer for home use, his foray into next, explain what happened there.  Because -- I mean, at first he went to Next and then he left and then Apple bought it.  Was that a failure or was the -- I mean, the product itself didn't catch on but the technology, how important was that?  
     KAHNEY:  Yes, you're right.  At the time, it was considered a massive failure.  And people were sort of surprised and a little bit amused that Apple bought it back.  But it went -- the technology he developed there went on to lay the foundation for the Mac OS 10, the operating system for the Macintosh computers which was also -- which had also been adapted for the iPod, the iPhone and the iPad.  
     So it laid the foundation for the software, which is such an important part of what Apple does.  And, you know, I think he recruited a lot of talent there.  A lot of the executives that are in charge at Apple now came from Next.  And he also learned how to be a better manager.  When he got fired from Apple when he went to set up Next, you know, he was a very -- very (INAUDIBLE), very unfocused, you know, could be all over the place.  He's a terrorist really.  They called him a terrorist inside Apple.  
     And during the years at Next, he not only learned how to work with people and delegate, and to trust other people's instincts.  So, you know, again, I think it set up all of the circumstances for his latest success.  The foundation in which he built on.  
     COOPER:  Sanjay, were you surprised that he was able to continue working for so long?  It was only just this past April I think that he --  
     GUPTA:  Right.  Yes, I mean I think in January he said he was taking a leave.  In August, he said that -- you know that leave was going to be permanent.  
     I was, you know, if you look at the numbers overall, I mean 2003, again, to now, eight years, is a long time to survive, let alone to have been able to function at the level that he was.  And he was fighting hard, Anderson.  I mean, by all accounts.  2003 to 2004, he was trying his own therapies.  In 2004, he had surgery to remove the tumor.  
     He had different therapies at that point.  He took a -- took a trip to Switzerland.  I remember when I was in Davos this past year, they were telling me about a trip that Steve Jobs had made there a couple of years prior for a somewhat unconventional treatment.  He was trying anything.  The liver transplant, we mentioned, in Memphis.  
     It was only two months after the transplant that we've even found out that he had one.  But the point of all that is to say that he really -- he really was trying to fight this, to combat it at all levels.  He talked about the fact that it was a hormone problem at some point.  Really shied away from calling it a cancer at any given point.  
     But it was a variant of pancreatic cancer which again is a -- it's a tough disease.  Caused the extreme weight loss that you saw there.  Just very gaunt he became.  And that's to be expected.  
     COOPER:  What is the weight -- is it just you can't -- I mean, you just don't have an appetite or --       GUPTA:  Part of it it's very hard to digest food sometimes.  Part of it is the cancer itself which literally can cause wasting of the body.  Caused wasting of the various muscles.  It's a hormonal imbalance.  So your insulin levels can rise and it can cause glucose to be driven into tissue very quickly.  So it's a combination of things.  But again, pretty typical sort of appearance with this.  But eight years is a pretty long time.  Especially to function at the level that he was functioning.  
     COOPER:  Bill Gates has released a statement.  Bill Gates, obviously the former chief executive of Microsoft, said -- this would be "The New York Times" Web site.  That he, quote, was -- was quote, "Truly saddened to learn of Steve Jobs' death."  He went on to say, "The world rarely sees someone who has had the profound impact Steve has had.  The effects of which will be felt for many generations to come.  For those of us lucky enough to get to work with him, it's been an insanely great honor.  I will miss Steve immensely."  
     Obviously, sentiment echoed by many people.  The -- actually I'm just getting another -- there's an e-mail address up on the Apple Web site for everyone to use.  If you would like to share your thoughts, your memories, your condolences, you can e-mail, rememberingSteve@Apple.com.  So it's RememberingSteve, one word, @Apple.com.  
     Dan, in terms of -- at what point did -- was this statement made? When exactly did this news break?  I mean it was literally just before we went on air, correct?  
     SIMON:  It was about, yes, 30 minutes ago when this was announced.  And you know, the thing about Steve Jobs is there were some bumpy patches.  But what was incredible is he was able to come back and revive Apple's fortunes after years of basically neglect if you will.  
     The company really suffered from some bad products in the '90s and at one time almost went bankrupt.  And Gil Amelio, he was the CEO at the time, was impressed with what Steve Jobs was doing over at Next.  The computer itself over at Next was a complete failure.  It was expensive.  Nobody bought it.  But he saw some genius in the software.  And so he brought Steve Jobs back.  And purchased Next.  
     And then essentially Steve Jobs became CEO again.  And we all know what happened over the next decade or so.  Hit after hit.  First the iPod, which was really the singular product that brought Apple back.  I mean, it was a phenomenal success.  Not only changed how we listen to music but changed the music industry.  
     And then a couple of years later, you of course had the iPhone, which now is the best-selling product for Apple.  Apple gets most of its revenue now actually from the iPhone.  And then produced another hit with the iPad.  The iPad dominates the tablet market.  Basically invented the tablet market.  They have about a 70 percent market share when it comes to those devices.  
     And so, you know, that's the thing with Steve Jobs, is it's one thing to just produce one hit product.  But to do it time and time again, it's unheard of.  
     COOPER:  And -- we're joined also by Andy Serwer, the managing editor of "Fortune" magazine.  I mean I just keep thinking about how he has changed our eye.  Because I mean just things that we couldn't even imagine the notion of a mouse or the notion of the kind of screens that you have on the iPad or the way the technology works on the iPod.  
     And now it just -- it's assumed that's the way these machines are built.  There's very few people who have created things out of whole cloth.  
     ANDY SERWER, FORTUNE MANAGING EDITOR:  Yes, I mean he's the most innovative business man, business person, of our time, Anderson.  And --  
     COOPER:  Without -- you're saying of our time, without a doubt the most innovative.  
     SERWER:  Without a doubt.  I mean there's no one that comes close because if you think of all the businesses, and all the products and services and markets that he's revolutionized, it's not just the computing business.  But it's also the telephone business.  Telephony. The movie business with Pixar.  Revolutionize that as well.  
     Retailing.  Think about Apple Stores.  Think about product design.  All these things.  All these different parts of business. And beyond that, it becomes a cultural and societal thing as well.  I mean it's hard to overstate his impact on business and society and culture.  
     COOPER:  Do you think Apple, the company itself, now changes or loses -- I was talking to Leander before, he saying, you know, maybe it's lost some of the magic that Steve brought to it.  
     SERWER:  Well, I mean he's irreplaceable.  And you know they have a very able team, a very deep bench.  Tim Cook, the CEO, is an incredibly smart and able executive.  However, you just can't replace someone like that.  I mean, you know, you've heard him describe --  
     COOPER:  That's Steve Cook on the left.  
