
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired February 9, 2012 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Erin, thanks.  Good evening, everyone.  
     We begin tonight "Keeping Them Honest," with a story that sparks fresh outrage every time there's a new development, especially so tonight.  That's because tonight one of Haley Barbour's final acts as governor of Mississippi was argued in court earlier today.  It was pardons for about 200 criminals, including four murderers that the state's attorney general persuaded a local judge to block.  
     Now in a moment you're going to hear Governor Barbour's attorney defend those pardons in Mississippi's Supreme Court today.  You'll hear him claim that mistakes made in the part and process were in so many words no big deal.  Harmless error is the legal term.  
     But for the families of these men's victims -- and these are the four convicted killers -- the words harmless error must feel like a slap in the face.  All four of these freed murderers, pardoned murderers, worked in the governor's mansion before winning release. Critics say they basically got the release by befriending or sucking up to then Governor Haley Barbour.  
     The governor says they committed crimes of passion.  That's what he calls them.  Making them highly unlikely, he says, to re-offend. Experts say that's just simply not true and in any event these were no crimes of passion in some cases.  One killer stuck up a convenience store, shooting the clerk dead as he begged for mercy.  Another stalked then murdered his wife, shooting her while she held their baby in her arms.  He also badly wounded her friend.  
     Another claims he was just wrestling with his gun, tussling, in his words, when his gun went off accidentally.  In fact, he'd gone out earlier, gotten that gun then shot a woman in the back.  
     Another man, Barry Bostick, got a pardon for his third DUI and while he was accused of a fourth DUI, that's when his pardon came through on his third one.  He was actually sitting in jail when he got pardoned.  During the fourth incident, by the way, his fourth DUI, he allegedly was involved in a wreck that killed Charity Smith.  She was only 18-year-old.  Bostick was actually sitting in jail as I said after the deadly crash when the governor signed his pardon on the previous DUI and he walked out of jail.  
     That one seems to be a case the governor not knowing about the fourth arrest.  And the Corrections Department not telling him.       He's also under fire for not notifying victims' families about the pardons.  But the central issue before the state Supreme Court today is Attorney General Jim Hood's claim that Governor Barbour violated a provision in Mississippi's constitution, Section 124, that requires criminals to give notice in local papers for 30 days prior to their release.  Attorney General Hood says in 22 cases, that rule was not followed.  
     Governor Barbour's lawyer defended the pardons by conceding that Section 124 may have been violated but arguing that legally didn't really matter.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     CHARLES GRIFFIN, BARBOUR'S ATTORNEY:  Yet there is no substantive right that has been violated.  If there is no prejudice that results from an arguably either failure to comply or partial failure to comply with the constitutional provision, then there has been no damage, there's no harm, there has been no suffering which will require redress.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  In a moment, we'll talk to Jeffrey Toobin on what the words no harm mean from a legal standpoint, what no harm and especially no suffering means to people who lost loved ones, though, that's a different story.  
     Tiffany Ellis Brewer lost her sister Tammy.  Betty Ellis lost a daughter.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     TIFFANY ELLIS BREWER, TAMMY GATLIN'S SISTER:  He's in jail for 18 years.  She was 20 years old when she died and had her child laying in her arms when he shot her in her head.  And he's pardoned?  
     BETTY ELLIS, TAMMY GATLIN'S MOTHER:  Governor Barbour going to pardon us for our aches and pains and heartache that we have to suffer?  Is he going to pardon a child that had to grow up without a mother?  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  And then there's Randy Walker who was shot and nearly killed in that attack.  He lives in fear the killer now free may come after him.  There's also the sister of Joseph Ozment's victim and Charity Smith's parents, all suffering tonight.  
     Now despite requests, Governor Barbour will not come on this program.  We've tried multiple, multiple times.  His law office sent us a statement saying, quote, "The governor's schedule will not accommodate an appearance."  We'll keep asking.  
     Tiffany Ellie Brewer and Betty Ellis join us shortly, along with our own Jeffrey Toobin.  But first let's check in with Ed Lavandera is Jackson, Mississippi.  
     Ed, you were there.  Take us through exactly what happened in court today.  
     ED LAVANDERA, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Boy, it was a proceeding that lasted about three hours and the attorneys for the various convicts that have been pardoned, and all of it centers around 10 people in particular.  There are five convicts that are still -- who are holding pardon papers but are still in jail.  They weren't released in time and then there are the five inmates who were the trustees working at the governor's mansion, four of which we focused on heavily, those four murders, those guys are already out.  
     So that lot of this riding especially for these 10 people what exactly this Supreme Court justices will decide weighs heavily on them.  Will they remain in prison?  Will they have to round up the five that have already been released and sent back to prison?  That is what's riding on the decision that these justices make and when that happens isn't exactly clear but these justices peppered these attorneys for three hours questions about the law and about how all of this will work out.  
     Governor Barbour's side essentially arguing that the court doesn't have any right in meddling in the governor's right to issue pardons, that they can't go back and try to turn back the clock and analyze this.  
     Of course, governor -- Attorney General Jim Hood here in Mississippi arguing just the opposite, that what might seem as a technicality to Barbour's side is simply more important than that, that they have to follow the Constitution, follow those notification -- those 30 days of notices that needed to go out before the pardons were issued and that's what all of this is riding on -- Anderson.  
     COOPER:  The lawyer for Governor Barbour actually argued that the governor can issue hundreds of pardons without referencing the notice provision at all.  How's that possible?  
     LAVANDERA:  That's what they -- they argued that it is up to the governor to decide whether or not the law has been or the notifications have been followed properly.  That it's up to him.  And they say if it's 28 -- if it were 28 days instead of 30 that it would be the governor's right to say, you know what, that's good enough. That nothing will change in the next two days that will change my decision, and they say that is solely the governor's decision. Obviously, the attorney general and victims' families here strongly disagree with that.  
     COOPER:  Jeff Toobin, I love it that everybody who loves the Constitution and says we should abide by the Constitution, unless they don't and then it doesn't seem to matter.  
     JEFFREY TOOBIN, CNN SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST:  Yes.  
     COOPER:  So he's essentially arguing what's in the state constitution, the -- the actual words in the constitution don't matter.  
     TOOBIN:  Well, and you know, Section 124, you don't have to be a lawyer to understand what it says.  I mean it's very simple.  And one reason why I think this harmless error argument is so weak here is because what harmless error means is it's just a technicality, it has no substantive significance.  
     COOPER:  But that's not true.  
     TOOBIN:  But that's not true in this case because in this case the reason for putting an ad in the newspaper is to notify victims, to notify prosecutors, to notify people affected by the crime so that they can go to the governor and say, look, don't pardon this guy. Look at all the stuff you don't know about the crime.  
     COOPER:  And that's precisely what a lot of the victims and their families are saying they did not have an opportunity to do.  
     TOOBIN:  Exactly.  
     COOPER:  Randy Walker said he never had a chance to plead his case.  
     TOOBIN:  Exactly.  Which seems to me the exact opposite of harmless error.  Like harmless error is you got a warrant, you know, like a search warrant, but the wrong date was stamped on it.  I think that really is a technicality.  Here, the fact that these people didn't know that these murderers were up for pardons is a substantive problem with how the process worked and -- which is finding hard to believe that the judges would read that part out of the constitution.  
     COOPER:  I want to bring in some victims' family.  
     Tiffany, your sister was killed.  When you hear Governor Barbour's lawyer saying there's been, quote, "no harm", and, quote, "no suffering," which would require redress, what do you say to that?  
     BREWER:  Well, you know, I would wonder, you know, does he have children or brothers, sisters, that had been through this?  You know. And what harm and suffering really is because apparently he has no idea and, you know, as you say, that the 30-day notice, you know, we should have been notified but Haley Barbour should have taken it upon himself to open those files and to look at those files and see what happened, what really happened.  
     And then -- I mean, this man, you know, there's no -- no harm done?  I mean, we have a family member that, you know, we won't see or -- until we get to heaven.  And there's no harm done?  I'm sorry.  I just don't agree with that at all.  
     COOPER:  And Betty Ellis, it was your daughter, Tammy Gatlin, who was murdered.  When you heard Governor Barbour's lawyer making that argument today, I mean, what did that make you think?  
     ELLIS:  Well, I guess it just goes to say what no harm means to him doesn't mean the same thing that it means to us.  We certainly have suffered a lot since Tammy was murdered in '93.  And to us, harm has been done to us because we wasn't given the opportunity to speak and to present our case and our thoughts to him.  
     He couldn't even consider us as being in the picture when he made the decision to pardon these people.  He didn't apparently think about any of the victims' families.  It's like the victim was never there. He was just -- it was just a pardon that he was going to do because he could do it.  And that's what he did.  
     COOPER:  And had, you know, they put notices in the paper and given 30 days, would you have at least liked to have the opportunity to speak to the governor, to speak to someone in his office and explain why you wouldn't want your child's killer out free?  
     ELLIS:  Yes.  We definitely would have liked to speak to the governor.  We're trying to speak to the governor and he never returned phone calls or made any attempt to grant us the time to speak to him. We -- the Parole Board is supposed to approve these pardons, as well. And we've missed parole hearings because they didn't notify us when the parole hearing was going to be, so we really have not been given a chance in this all through the process.  
     COOPER:  Tiffany, I heard you say that this is like having your sister die twice.  What do you mean?  
     BREWER:  Yes.  Well, you know, when it first happened, I mean, it's a different feeling definitely.  I mean, when it first happened it is just unreal.  It's surreal.  You just hardly can't believe it. But then, when a person is sentenced to life plus 30 years and you think, OK, I don't have to worry about this guy coming out, getting out, coming after my family anymore, you know?  
     He -- the justice system has taken care of him.  When he was pardoned, my sister -- it brought back every feeling that we ever had the day that she died.  I can remember the exact time I got the phone call.  Everything.  I remember the look on my mother's face when I walked in the door.  I remember everything.  And it goes over and over and over and it has for the last month.  
     It's like my mama has said, it's all you think about.  It doesn't matter what you're doing.  It's in the back of your mind.  
     COOPER:  Of course.  It never goes away.  And I guess in many cases it never really gets better.  
     Betty, you know, the fact that your daughter's killer now is out there, has this pardon, basically, his slate has been wiped clean, your family's hoping that the law's going to change.  Right?  
     ELLIS:  Yes.  We're hoping that the law is going to change. We're trying to get the legislatures to put some bills through that would stop some of this from happening.  If the people that were murderers had not been allowed to be trustees at the mansion, then this wouldn't have happened maybe.  That was -- supposedly that is in the prisoner's handbook that a murderer is not supposed to be allowed to serve as a trustee.  If that had taken place and whoever was responsible for seeing that that didn't happen then we wouldn't be here tonight.  
     COOPER:  You know, it is incredible, Jeff, when you think -- I mean this man, this man who murdered, you know, her child and Tiffany's sister got life plus 30 years.  That sounds like life in prison.  That sounds like you're going to be away for a long time and he wasn't.  
     TOOBIN:  And he wasn't.  You know the hard --  
     COOPER:  Just because he was able to get a job, you know, and it sounds like he never even really did a lot of time behind bars.  He was always in some sort of a trustee position, always in some sort of a special program.  
     TOOBIN:  You know, the pardon power is one of the legal ideas that comes to the United States from the power of kings.  It is one of the few absolute powers that a king had in England or that chief executives has and it's one of the last vestiges of a president can pardon someone and president have gotten in trouble for dumb pardons. And governors in most cases can pardon people and there is usually no recourse to the courts.  
     The only reason they are in court and they have a shot at -- at getting these pardons overturned is because of this peculiar Section 124.  The notice requirement.  
     COOPER:  Do we know how soon we may get a ruling on this?  
     TOOBIN:  The chief justice said today definitely not today, and they're clearly going to write something so I would expect a week or two weeks at the earliest.  
     COOPER:  Betty and Tiffany, again, I'm so sorry for your loss and I'm sorry that you yet again have to stand up and speak on behalf of those who are not here to speak and I appreciate you doing that tonight for us and we'll continue to check in with you.  Thank you so much.  Jeff Toobin, as well.  Thank, Ed Lavandera.  
     ELLIS:  Thank you for having us.  
     BREWER:  Thank you.  
     COOPER:  Thank you.  
     Let us know what you think.  We're on Facebook, Google Plus, add us to your circles.  What do you think about this?  Does this make any sense to you?  Let me know on Twitter @Andersoncooper.  I'll be reading your tweets tonight.  
     Up next, as the killing in Syria escalates, we're going to show you the enormous difference between how the Syrian state media is spinning the story and what the reality is.  We're "Keeping Them Honest" with the reports from Syrians living through a war their government is waging on them.  
     Also, "Keeping Them Honest,"  is the Obama campaign changing the stance on the people he once called fat cats because he needs their campaign donation?  
     Let's check in also with Isha -- Isha.  
     ISHA SESAY, CNN ANCHOR:  Anderson, she's just 7 years old but she is a tough little girl.  The man who grabbed her at the Walmart, well, he found that out.  We'll show you how she got away and tell you how the story ended when 360 continues.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     COOPER:  "Keeping Them Honest" now on the killing in Syria.  The Assad regime's systematic assault on major cities and the devastation of entire neighborhoods.  Now activists say at least 137 people were killed today, mostly in the city of Homs.  Parts of which are simply -- seem to be being leveled to the ground or attempted to be.  This video was captured by someone who found himself right in the middle of the shelling.  Take a look.  
     Yelling, god is great.  This is now daily life and death in Homs. Almost constant shelling, mortar and rocket fire.  It's been going on for six days in this particular bombardment.  People trapped inside their apartments because snipers target them on the streets.  They're huddled inside, living on bread and water, waiting, in the words of one local resident, for death.  
     It is not just Homs.  There are tanks on the highway in Idlib Province, on the road from Aleppo to Hama.  Take a look.  Not jeeps or armored personnel carriers.  Heavy main battle tanks with guns that can bring down buildings.  
     And in Hama, which Bashar al-Assad's own father leveled to the ground back in 1982, killing thousands and thousands of people, someone caught this video of a sniper's nest and the sniper who mans it.  They're in all the besieged cities taking aim at people who dares step outside their homes whether for food, for medical care, even to bury their dead.  They're pinned down, men, women, children.  
     An activist we're calling Danny has been documenting the reality in Homs mainly in the neighborhood of Baba Amr.  Here's one of his dispatches from today.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     DANNY, SYRIAN ACTIVIST:  This is one of the houses in Baba Amr. Look at these children.  Is this how the Assad regime wants to treat our children?  Now you see what Assad regime is killing children. What's the U.N. going to do about this?  What is the U.N. going to do about this?  Nothing.  They're going to sit and discuss and see what they're going to do this peacefully.  They want to solve it peacefully with this.  After what they did to these children.  
     They have been hitting us from 6:00 a.m. until it's 2:00 p.m. now.  We have over 100 bodies, over 200 underneath the destructions. We don't even know who they are.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)     COOPER:  Remember, the Assad regime, by the way, denies almost all of this is happening.  
     Now I want to show you Syrian state media's Web site from earlier this evening.  Their lead story is President Assad issues a decree on cyber crime.  Cyber crime.  Then there are accounts of Russian and Chinese support for the regime and reports of terrorist attacks in Homs and elsewhere.  
     Then there's a report and pictures of elaborate memorial services for seven security force members, victims, the report says, of the terrorist conspiracy.  Now no doubt security forces are being killed. Wouldn't be worth mentioning except this kind of funeral in broad daylight is rare in places like Homs where the mere act of burying a loved one can get you killed.  Remember that picture?  That funeral for security forces, officers dressed in nice uniforms, very formal presentation out in the daylight.  
     Well, BBC reporter Paul Wood found out what it's like for civilians in Homs after they die and he was snuck into the city.  Take a look.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     PAUL WOOD, BBC CORRESPONDENT:  Like all the dead here, she must be buried in darkness.  Daytime is too dangerous.  There is no family, no prayers.  And little dignity.  They have to hurry.  Even now, they are attacked.  There will be many more such desperate and lonely burials.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  People risking their own lives to bury the bodies of children they don't even know under the cover of darkness because it's too dangerous to do it during the day.  
     The BBC's Paul Wood reporting there.  He snuck in, he made it back out again.  Others are there for the duration.  Last night we spoke to an opposition member who goes by the alias Abu Abdo.  When we reached him today he was on his way back to Homs, on foot from another town, Aleppo, carrying medical supplies.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  How difficult is it to get supplies in Homs right now?  
     ABU ABDO, SYRIAN ACTIVIST, REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL OF HOMS:  Well, it's impossible to get supplies to Homs right now.  The city is entirely isolated, surrounded with all types of tankers, machine guns and snipers all around.  And in the city.  The people, they can't move inside the city and they can't go out or get in.  At the same time, nothing can go out or in to the city and the hunger is started to spread around and I think in one week it will be a total catastrophe because people will start dying, will start dying at hunger besides shelling and rockets.  
     COOPER:  And the shelling continue?  
     ABDO:  Of course.  Shelling never stops since this Friday.  
     COOPER:  We saw -- I saw video yesterday on the BBC of people being buried at night.  Is that the only time you can bury people?  
     ABDO:  Well, it's the only time we can bury people if we got lucky and the shelling like got a little bit less for some time.  And sometimes we can't bury.  We can't bury bodies.  We just collect them in apartments and we wait until getting some chance to bury them. Sometimes we bury them inside houses.  In house gardens.  
     COOPER:  There are reports that as many as 131 people including children were killed today by the regime.  What do you want the Assad regime to know?  
