
	<P class="cnnBodyText">Aired October 24, 2011 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText">THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.</P>
	<P class="cnnBodyText"><br>     ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Erin, thanks.  Good evening, everyone.  
     We begin tonight "Keeping Them Honest."  New revelations highlighting the gap between what a politician says on the campaign trail and his or her own record.  The record he or she is running on or in this case appears to be running away from and twisting the facts on.  
     It's the latest chapter in a long-running anti-Mitt Romney storyline.  He's running away from the health care reform plan he crafted as governor of Massachusetts.  The one he hailed at the time as a triumph of bipartisanship.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     MITT ROMNEY (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  It's now my pleasure to introduce my collaborator and friend, Senator Edward Kennedy. Senator?  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  Well, the one he touted at the time, and remember, it was only five years ago, as a model for the rest of the country.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     ROMNEY:  I think there are a number of features in the Massachusetts plan that could inform Washington on ways to improve health care for all Americans.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  The one crafted with the help of MIT's Jonathan Gruber and others who later went on to help President Obama create the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, what opponents call Obama- care.  And what Governor Romney's former presidential rival Tim Pawlenty called Obamney-care for its similarity to the governor's law. 
     So these days Governor Romney has been running away from his creation as fast as he can, say his critics.  No longer saying it should be held up as a model.  In fact he's now supporting a ballot measure in Ohio making a key feature of his Massachusetts law illegal in that state.       But it's another little known piece of his law that's giving him the biggest headache today.  One that says any resident of Massachusetts is entitled if they need it to state subsidized health care regardless of their immigration status.  
     Now remember Mitt Romney is the one who in the recent CNN Western Republican debate tore in to Texas Governor Rick Perry's statewide program to educate young people even illegal immigrants.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     ROMNEY:  You talk about magnets.  You put in place some magnet that draw illegals to this state which was giving $100,000 of tuition credit to illegals that come to this country, and then you have states -- you have states -- the big states of illegal immigrants are California and Florida.  Over the last 10 years they've had no increase in illegal immigration.  
     Texas has had 60 percent increase in illegal immigrants in Texas. If there's someone who has a record as governor with regards to illegal immigration that doesn't stand up to muster it's you, not me.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  Well, now, Romney opponents have uncovered a portion of the Massachusetts health care plan that they're calling a magnet for illegal immigrants.  Take a look at the Q&A section of the Massachusetts Web site explaining the law.  
     Question 4, "Do I need to be a U.S. citizen to be eligible for the Health Safety Net?"  Answer, "You do not need to be a U.S. citizen to be eligible for the Health Safety Net.  You do need to live in Massachusetts."  
     The Perry campaign has seized on to that releasing a statement saying, in part, "Governor Romney's government mandated health care plan provided free care for illegal immigrants in Massachusetts establishing just the kind of illegal immigration magnet Governor Romney claims to oppose."  
     And the Romney campaign fired back trying to blame that provision on Deval Patrick, Mitt Romney's Democratic successor in the governor's office.  Said a Romney spokeswoman, "All the regulatory activities involving the Health Safety Net fund including who could get care were made long after Mitt Romney left office."  
     But "Keeping Them Honest," that just does not appear to be so.  
     Here's what one leading expert on Baystate health care told CNN's Jim Acosta.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     JOHN MCDONOUGH, HARVARD SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH:  He definitely signed the law, absolutely his people had to know both before and after the law about how the state dealt with this need.  This was a costly issue.  It was part of the process in the conversation leading to passage of the law.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  Now you can argue about whether covering illegal immigrants is a good or bad idea.  And not taking a position on that. Supporters say it's a money saver because uninsured people end up using much costly emergency care.  But whatever you think of the merits, you can't, as Mitt Romney seems to be doing, try to disown it out of political convenience when pretty clearly it's something you were involved with.  
     Here to talk about it, three conservative voices.  Former congresswoman, Susan Molinari, founder of the government and public affairs firm, Susan Molinari Strategies.  She's a Mitt Romney supporter.  
     Also former congressman JC Watts, chairman of the JC Watts Companies who hasn't endorsed a candidate yet.  
     And Dana Loesch, co-organizer of the St. Louis Tea Party Coalition and an editor of Bigjournalism.com.  
     Dana, is this a problem for Mitt Romney?  
     DANA LOESCH, CNN CONTRIBUTOR:  I think it's a big problem for Mitt Romney.  And I think that his defense on this right out of the gate was a little bit weak.  There's several different ways that he could have come up stronger against this.  But he chose absolutely the weakest one.  
     It's a huge problem because he made this a focus against Rick Perry and any other candidate during the last debate.  And it's a big problem because health care compare -- if you want to look at illegal immigrants and health care costs and you want to look at illegal immigrants and college tuition, health care is a mandate.  You have to have health care.  You don't have to have a college education.  So I think that it's exponentially worse.  
     And I also -- there's so many -- Anderson, there's so many different ways that I have problems with this whole thing, but the bottom line is that it underscores how bad Romney-care was and still is and still continues to be, not just for Massachusetts but for Mitt Romney.  
     COOPER:  Susan, you're a Romney supporter.  Do you -- do you agree with Dana that this is damaging for him?  
     SUSAN MOLINARI, FOUNDER, SUSAN MOLINARI STRATEGIES:  I think it's something that needs to be explained in terms of the reality of today. Number one, his health and human services secretary stood up and said, while we were crafting this legislation, at no point in time did we do anything to encourage and in fact went out of our way to discourage illegal immigrants from taking care of -- from taking advantage of this Health Safety Net.  
     Number two, illegal immigrants or anyone taking advantage of emergency room health care is a federal law, not a state law.  So that's something that has to be dealt with on a state by state basis from a federal perspective, not from just the state of Massachusetts.  
     And number three, it is true that the regulations that were promulgated that seek to include illegal immigration by strongly -- illegal immigrants by strongly defining it happened under a liberal Democrat senator -- governor, Deval Patrick, not under Governor Romney.  
     COOPER:  But, Susan, you're saying that, you know, they didn't do anything to encourage illegals, but the law when it was being written and Mitt Romney apparently knew about it and this was discussed at the time, according to those who have been following this very closely, they knew it would allow illegals who were in the state of Massachusetts to get health care.  
     MOLINARI:  Before the law and after the law, illegals were granted access to health care because that is the federal preemption over all state laws.  So yes, I'm sure they were aware of it, but there was very little they could do in crafting state legislation.  
     COOPER:  JC, do you -- where do you stand on this?  
     J.C. WATTS, FORMER OBAMA CONGRESSMAN:  Hi, Susan and Dana.  
     Anderson, with all due respect to Governor Romney, I think as I traveled over the country the last 14, 16 months talking to Republican voters, I have found there's been two camps.  There's been an anti -- there's been a pro-Romney camp and an anybody-but-Romney camp.  And I think again with all due respect to the governor, these are the type of things that have Republican voters questioning, you know, where he stands.  
     I understand the federal -- you know, the federal regulatory policy.  However, it's something that the governor's going to have to defend and I think it's one more, you know, arrow in his quiver that he's going to have to defend along with all the other things that people see a real dichotomy in his policy decisions concerning a lot of different things.  
     That's why you've not seen him running two presidential campaigns both very well funded, very well organized, but he's not gotten more than 24, 25 percent at this point.  And I suspect that will remain a problem or will present a real problem for his consultants and those who are advising him.  
     COOPER:  Dana, couldn't you just say -- and let me just play devil's advocate here.  Couldn't you just say, well, look, this is just the Perry campaign trying to muddy the waters, that Romney scored some blows against Perry during various debates saying that he was basically encouraging illegals to come to Texas with the Dream Act, by his support of it?  This is -- they're just trying to muddy the waters.  
     LOESCH:  Well, you could say that but it's -- but Perry didn't have anything to do with this, I mean this is all Romney's doing.  Two points that really need to be addressed here.  First and foremost that these rules went into effect May 1st, 2004, while Mitt Romney was governor.  These rules went into effect and it stated clearly that your citizenship status, your immigration status, will have no effect on your eligibility.  This passed while Mitt Romney was still governor.  So it -- the Deval Patrick argument does not work.  The only way that worked, Anderson --  
     COOPER:  Well, what about Susan's argument -- what about Susan's argument that the federal government requires, you know, that people be treated --  
     LOESCH:  Right.  Well, no, and look, I understand that point because -- and I think that perhaps the intent behind this was to encourage illegal immigrants to stop using the emergency room as a primary care facility.  But there's a problem with that.  And the problem is we know just last year $400 million was spent on this particular program and over -- a little over one million clinic visits and hospital visits were paid for through this program.  
     But the problem is we don't know how many of them were illegal immigrants because Massachusetts doesn't record that data.  So if you're going to use this as an argument to say, well, the federal law says that we have to cover them, this program is us trying to reduce the cost, then you would think that the state would keep track of the number of illegal immigrants whose visits have been paid with this program.  
     So we don't know how many.  So I don't know how anyone can really use that argument to sort of boost their point here.  
     COOPER:  Susan?  
     MOLINARI:  Well, because the point is that you're accusing Governor Romney of including them and I'm saying that it is the federal government that forced the governor to cover that in any legislation as has been the case in states throughout this country and in fact under Governor Deval Patrick, the Democrat, the current sitting governor, those ramifications and policy ramifications have only increased towards encouraging illegal immigrants to take that kind of action.  
     So those are very valid points.  That was not the reality set forth by Governor Romney in any way, shape or form.  
     COOPER:  We'll see how they continue or this continues to play out on the campaign trail.  
     Dana Loesch, Susan Molinari, J.C. Watts, appreciate your being with us.  Thank you very much.  
     Let us know what you think.  We're on Facebook.  Follow me on Twitter, @andersoncooper.  I'll be tweeting tonight.  You're already tweeting me about it.  
     Up next, what's going on in there?  Are Democrats wasting their time playing politics on a jobs bill, scheduling vote after vote that they know will fail while unemployed Americans are pounding the pavement?  Or are Republicans obstructing a big that most Americans said they want?  We're "Keeping Them Honest."  
     Also tonight, new video showing some of Moammar Gadhafi's final moments.  Yes, another video.  The moment he was taken alive, really basically once and for all answers the questions about whether or not he was actually caught in crossfire as the Libyan government has continued to claim.  
     And later new surveillance video in the disappearance of that 11- month-old little girl baby Lisa.  Who is the shadowy figure on the tape and what clues if any could the tape offer in the search which was taken the night she disappeared?  "Crime & Punishment" when we continue.  
     (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     COOPER:  "Keeping Them Honest" tonight, what Congress is doing instead of reaching an agreement on efforts to put Americans back to work, what one side is calling Republican refusal to even consider President Obama's jobs plan and what the other side is calling a Democratic ploy to keep putting that plan up for a vote knowing full well the Republicans just won't pass it.  
     The charge Democratic political grandstanding instead of trying to reach a compromise that will help unemployed Americans.  
     Now you can agree or disagree on that charge.  We'll talk more about it shortly.  But first, how we got here.  The president put forward a plan that polling shows a strong majority of Americans support.  But nearly all Republicans and a handful of Democrats in Congress do not.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:   Some of you probably know that last month I sent Congress a piece of legislation called the American Jobs Act.  Don't just applaud about it, vote for it.  Vote for it.  And this is the bill that Congress needs to pass. You should pass right away.  You should pass it right away.  Pass this jobs bill.  
     Now.  Pass this bill.  We need to pass this bill.  I don't care if you're a Republican or a Democrat.  This is not the Republican Jobs Act.  This is not called the Democratic Jobs Act.  This is the American Jobs Act.  
     And everybody will be better off if we pass it.  Pass the jobs bill.  They should pass it right away.  I'm ready to sign a bill. I've got the pens all ready.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  But Republicans squashed -- quashed the bill in the House and blocked the Senate version from proceeding.  They attacked the president for playing politics with jobs and waging class warfare because the bill is financed by taxes on the wealthy.  
     So Senate majority leader Harry Reid breaks the bill into pieces still with a millionaire tax.  And though Republicans can once again block it, Senator Reid said he's going to keep scheduling these votes. In a conference call recently a reporter asked him why.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  So if 75 percent of the American population supports taxing millionaires and you say that the problem is that the Senate GOP is not going to get on board with this, why not try to find another pay for it that the Senate GOP can get behind instead of taxing millionaires?  
     SEN. HARRY REID (D), MAJORITY LEADER:  The Senate GOP has had a love affair for many years now with Grover Norquist.  They will not touch anything dealing with revenue, nothing.  Even though they're not in touch with reality or their own constituents, but they are in touch with Grover Norquist.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  And Grover Norquist, by the way, is a conservative anti- tax GOP kingmaker.  Senate minority leader Mitch McConnell says this got nothing to do with Grover Norquist and everything to do with Harry Reid and the White House playing politics.  
     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
     SEN. MITCH MCCONNELL (R), MINORITY LEADER:  These bills are designed on purpose not to pass.  I mean the president is deliberately trying to create an issue here.  I don't think the American people think that raising taxes on business -- small business -- in the middle of this economic situation we find ourselves in is a particularly good idea.  
     (END VIDEO CLIP)
     COOPER:  He clearly believes that Americans want Republicans to stand their ground.  And Senator Reid believes just as firmly that Americans support the Democratic position and need to be shown who's blocking it.  
     "Keeping Them Honest," when it comes to policy, the polling does support Senator Reid's funding mechanism for the jobs bill.  Seventy- six percent favor increasing taxes on people making more than $1 million a year.  On the other hand, on the politics of scheduling vote after hopeless vote nearly to make a point, it may be on much shakier ground.  That same CNN/ORC poll shows that 69 percent of Americans believe Congress has done nothing -- repeat nothing -- to address the country's problems and this is part of it.  
     Of that 69 percent, by the way, 28 percent blame Republicans, 18 blame Democrats, and 18 percent blame both.  
     Joining me now senior political analyst David Gergen and chief White House correspondent Jessica Yellin.  
     So -- David, I mean, Democrats are being quite open about what they're doing here.  They're saying, look, we're going to make Republicans vote on all of these pieces of the president's jobs proposal.  And if they vote them down, we'll remind voters of that on the campaign trail.  That is -- I mean that's -- that is kind of political game playing, is it not?  
     DAVID GERGEN, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST:  It is political gamesmanship.  And I think most Democrats will tell you that privately.  That right from the beginning this jobs bill, while Democrats especially in the White House believe it would help, was designed to be more of a political document than a governing document because the president asked that it all of it be paid for through higher taxes knowing full well that Republicans would refuse.  
     And ordinarily, Anderson, you know, if you want to have a serious governing document, you put forward your proposal, you invite the other side to put forward theirs and then you sit down and compromise and see if you can reach an agreement as they did in the very messy process around the debt ceiling.  
     Instead the Democrats have chosen this other path.  They want to make points.  They want to show that they -- you know, that the Republicans the obstacle.  Ultimately they want to blame the Republicans for high unemployment.  
     This is all about setting up an argument next November that it's the Republicans who refuse to go along.  But you know in terms of gamesmanship, Anderson, both sides have played this.  Republicans, remember, earlier this year passed the Ryan plan in the House knowing full well it wasn't going anywhere in the Senate.  But they wanted to make a point and wanted to make -- they wanted to win an argument about entitlement reform and by cutting deficits.  
     COOPER:  And Jessica, I mean, Democrats are saying, well, look, Republicans were doing it, so now we're just doing it too just to make this point and to -- you know, we're now playing by their same rules. That's what I'm hearing from a lot of Democrats.  
     JESSICA YELLIN, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Sure.  I mean this is -- the reality is this is what parties do in an election year.  I mean the majority forces the minority to take unpopular votes.  Does that lead us to a bright new tomorrow?  No.  But that's how this town sometimes works.  
     I'll make two points.  One is, Anderson, that it's true that the White House would be happy if some elements of this plan would pass because it would probably at least alleviate unemployment in the short term which would help the president in the election year.  So they do think that there are two pieces of it that will pass.  The payroll tax cut and unemployment insurance.  But beyond that, it is a political game.  
     It's -- what they're trying to do is point out that the Republicans are opposing these very, very popular elements of this plan, and then hold their feet to the fire because what is the president's other alternative in a terrible, terrible economy, he has to drive a campaign message.  This is what he can do under the current circumstances.  
     COOPER:  So, David, other than those two items that Jessica mentioned, it doesn't seem like there is much room for compromise.  I mean it just seems like a stalemate.  
     GERGEN:  Well, there is a talk among Republicans about trying to pass a piece of legislation that would repatriate the earnings that corporations have earned overseas but they're not bringing back home because tax rates are so high here on corporate earnings.  And Republicans might be willing to cut a deal to do more on the jobs plan if the Democrats would go along with the repatriation argument.  
     "The New York Times" editorialized today against repatriation for a variety of reasons.  So, you know, there are -- I think there are -- still some bargaining.  They did get the trade bills through.  And the president didn't like to mention that.  But that he wouldn't have won those trade bills without Republicans passing the votes.  
     But the last point, Anderson, I think is this.  The president is really playing -- and Jessica knows this better than I do.  The president is on a dual track policy.  On one hand he's trying to set up all the obstruction and blaming the Republicans for stopping things.  On the other hand, he's using the executive power of the presidency to try to get some positive things done as he did today on housing and refinancing housing.  
